See	discussions,	stats,	and	author	profiles	for	this	publication	at:	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/273069602
Engaging	Students	in	an	MIS	Course	through	the
Creation	of	E-Business:	A	Self-Determination
Theory	Analysis
Article		in		Communications	of	the	Association	for	Information	Systems	·	February	2015
CITATION
1
READS
105
3	authors,	including:
Some	of	the	authors	of	this	publication	are	also	working	on	these	related	projects:
Knowledge	learning	netwroks	View	project
Hackers	networks	View	project
Amit	Rechavi
Ruppin	Academic	Center
10	PUBLICATIONS			25	CITATIONS			
SEE	PROFILE
All	content	following	this	page	was	uploaded	by	Amit	Rechavi	on	04	March	2015.
The	user	has	requested	enhancement	of	the	downloaded	file.
Communications of the Association for Information Systems
Volume 36 Article 10
2-2015
Engaging Students in an MIS Course through the
Creation of E-Business: A Self-Determination
Theory Analysis
Yossi Lichtenstein
Norwich Business School, University of East Anglia, UK, y.lichtenstein@uea.ac.uk
Pamela Abbott
Department of Information Systems and Computing, Brunel University, UK
Amit Rechavi
Rupin Academic College, Israel
Follow this and additional works at: http://aisel.aisnet.org/cais
This material is brought to you by the Journals at AIS Electronic Library (AISeL). It has been accepted for inclusion in Communications of the
Association for Information Systems by an authorized administrator of AIS Electronic Library (AISeL). For more information, please contact
elibrary@aisnet.org.
Recommended Citation
Lichtenstein, Yossi; Abbott, Pamela; and Rechavi, Amit (2015) "Engaging Students in an MIS Course through the Creation of E-
Business: A Self-Determination Theory Analysis," Communications of the Association for Information Systems: Vol. 36, Article 10.
Available at: http://aisel.aisnet.org/cais/vol36/iss1/10
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
Engaging Students in an MIS Course through the Creation of E-Business: A 
Self-Determination Theory Analysis  
Yossi Lichtenstein 
Norwich Business School, University of East Anglia, UK    
y.lichtenstein@uea.ac.uk 
 
Pamela Abbott 
Department of Information Systems and Computing, Brunel University, UK 
 
Amit Rechavi 
Rupin Academic College, Israel 
 
We describe an entrepreneurial approach for teaching a management information systems (MIS) course. The 
course builds on the psychological needs for autonomy, competence, and relatedness to encourage student 
motivation and engagement. Students are required to create new electronic businesses and to build prototypes of 
their electronic Web fronts. Students are also required to use the concepts taught in the course and to analyze the 
ventures’ strategies, related network externalities, and business processes and data analytics. The course has been 
taught since 2009 to five classes and more than two-hundred students. Using student evaluation questionnaires and 
four detailed interviews, we found that more than half of the students were enthusiastic about the new approach: 
they felt satisfied and even proud of their projects. However, a minority of students found the course over-
complicated and even boring. We also found that students who expressed autonomy orientation engaged with the 
course, while students who expressed impersonal or controlled orientation did not. We believe that this analysis 
should help instructors in aligning new teaching opportunities created by IT to fit students’ orientations and needs.  
 
Keywords: Information Systems, Education, Curricula. 
Volume 36, Article 10, pp. 157-177, February 2015 
The manuscript was received 10/03/2014 and was with the authors 3 months for 2 revisions. 
  
Engaging Students in an MIS Course through the Creation of E-Business: A Self-
Determination Theory Analysis 
Virhe. Määritä Aloitus-välilehdessä Title, jota haluat käyttää tähän 
kirjoitettavaan tekstiin. 
158 
Volume 36 Article 10 
I. INTRODUCTION  
The management of information systems (MIS) is challenging to teach in a business-school context because of a 
mismatch between curricula and the business community’s needs. Typically, academic MIS courses are quite 
technically focused, while employers seek graduates with a mixture of both enterprise or business knowledge and 
technological knowledge. In addition, continuous technological changes and the rapid evolution of business 
experiences relating to IT often render academic MIS courses’ technical focus outdated. A further difficulty is the fact 
that IT and business taught as a subject area is interdisciplinary by nature, which makes it difficult to delineate its 
core insights (Dhar & Sundararajan, 2007). As a result of these difficulties, we have seen reduced student 
enrolments in MIS programs and the merging of MIS courses and programs into other school areas (Gefen at al., 
2012). Consequently, researchers have attempted to re-engineer MIS curricula (Aitken & Hatt 2012; Austin, Nolan, & 
O’Donnell, 2009; Whelan & Firth 2012) with new approaches to tie business and technology perspectives together.  
In this paper, we describe and analyze a management information technology course in an MBA degree at the 
largest business school in Israel. We developed and taught this course, in which we leveraged the country’s 
entrepreneurial culture (Senor & Singer, 2009) to engage students through electronic business innovation. At the 
same time, we designed the course to incorporate theory-based concepts of technology and business, and included 
ideas from economics, strategic management, decision science, and sociology to create enduring knowledge 
assets. This approach shares many of the principles Austin et al. (2009) reports, including design for student 
engagement, emphasis on IT’s business aspects, and the identification of a set of core issues essential to IT 
management. However, the two courses differ: Austin et al.’s (2009) hero’s journey from a business executive to a 
chief information officer is designed for student derivation of management frameworks; however, our course focused 
on a predefined set of MIS concepts. Also, while Austin et al.’s (2009) course is technology independent, we 
leverage the consumerization of IT (Economist, 2011) and von Hippel’s (2006) ideas about the democratizing of 
innovation to create business and technology connection and student engagement.  
In this paper, we (1) present a novel approach to teaching management information systems in a business school 
setting with the expectation that others can use it as a model for their own course development, and (2) analyze the 
effectiveness of this approach in engaging students and achieving learning objectives. The analysis is of interest 
because technology enables a variety of opportunities for student-centered learning, and the particular case we 
describe should clarify under which circumstances such courses may be successful or for which students such 
courses are effective.  
Our analysis is guided by self-determination theory (SDT) (Deci & Ryan, 2012a), which focuses on the satisfaction of 
the basic psychological needs of autonomy, competence, and relatedness for achieving motivation. These basic 
psychological needs are highly relevant to the approach of teaching through ideation and innovation. We used a 
mixed-methods analytical approach, which included a cluster analysis of student evaluation questionnaires and a 
qualitative analysis of interviews with four students. 
The paper is organised as follows. In Section 2, we discuss SDT. In Section 3, we describe the course (delivery, 
technological tools used, and electronic businesses suggested by students). In Section 4, we present our 
quantitative and qualitative analysis, and, in Section 5, we discuss the results. 
II. THEORY 
Student Engagement and Motivation  
The objective of the newly designed course was to enhance student engagement through student-centered learning. 
Student engagement is “participation in educationally effective practices, both inside and outside the classroom” 
(Harper & Quaye 2008, p. 2). These effective educational practices could be experienced as a combination of 
“student-faculty contact, cooperation among students, active learning, prompt feedback, time on task, high 
expectations, and respect for diverse talents and ways of learning” (Kuh, Kinzie, Buckley, Bridges, & Hayek, 2007, p. 
43). The course was designed to include quite a few of these underlying cues for effective educational engagement 
such as on-going faculty-student discussions on the feasibility and value of the new electronic businesses (often 
before or after the formal lectures), active learning through engagement in a practical task, and group work that 
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
159 
respected individuals’ diverse talents. These types of engagement are also central to the precepts of student-
centered learning; that is, the: 
 ways of thinking about teaching and learning that emphasize student responsibility and activity in learning 
rather than content or what the teachers are doing...[it] has student responsibility and activity at its heart, in 
contrast to a strong emphasis on teacher control and coverage of academic content in much conventional, 
didactic teaching. (Cannon & Newble, 2000, pp. 16-17).  
At the heart of student-centered approaches to learning is engendering student motivation (Maclellan, 2008), which 
is further seen as dependent on the context in which the learning occurs (Schunk, Meece, & Pintrich, 2013). Thus, a 
context that emphasizes performance goals (external influences to succeed) may be more inclined to inhibit 
motivation as opposed to one that encourages mastering an activity (internal influences to succeed) (Maclellan, 
2008; Schunk et al., 2013). The social environment of learning has also been linked to the development of a sense 
of interest and volition in a student and, consequently, higher achievement (Krapp, 1999; Deci, Vallerand, Pelletier, 
& Ryan, 1991). Some authors further link such accomplishment to a student’s ability to value their work and regulate 
their learning behaviours (Black & Deci, 2000; Pintrich, 2004; Schunk et al., 2013; Vansteenkiste, Simons, Lens, 
Sheldon, & Deci, 2004). Some of these studies are based on a theoretical perspective about motivation known as 
self-determination theory (SDT), which we adopt as a guiding conceptual position in this paper. 
Self-Determination Theory  
Self-determination theory (SDT) is a theory of human motivation and personality. The theory should prove useful in 
evaluating the outcomes of a course designed around entrepreneurial self-developed electronic businesses because 
its most important conceptual distinction is between “autonomous” and “controlled” motivation (Deci & Ryan, 2012b, 
p. 422]. Briefly, autonomous motivation is related to the extent to which an individual is internally driven to 
accomplish a task, while controlled motivation is linked to external influences on accomplishing a task that are 
unassimilated/non-internalised by the individual. SDT maintains that whether a person’s motivation is more 
autonomous or more controlled predicts the quality of their engagement and performance better than predictions 
based on the intensity of the motivation (Deci & Ryan, 2012a, p. 86). SDT research supports these predictions in a 
variety of circumstances, including educational contexts (Benware & Deci, 1984; Black & Deci, 2000; Deci et al., 
1991). When college students learn under autonomous motivation, their learning tends to be deeper and more 
conceptual and they tend to remember it longer than when the motivation to learn is more controlled (Benware & 
Deci, 1984; Vansteenskiste et al., 2004). In the following paragraphs, we review of the background to SDT in more 
depth, which helps to frame and contextualize these assumptions.  
At the heart of SDT is the assertion that competence, relatedness, and autonomy are basic psychological needs that 
all individuals hold, which, when satisfied, lead to a sense of well-being and achievement: 
We have posited that people require three specific psychological nutriments for healthy functioning: They 
need to feel competent in negotiating their external and internal environments; they need to experience 
relatedness to other people and groups; and they need to feel autonomy or self-determination with respect 
to their own behaviours and lives. (Deci & Ryan, 2012a, p. 87) 
Competence refers to an individual’s experience of having the confidence to pursue and effectively master activities 
in their environment (Deci & Ryan, 2000; Sheldon et al., 2001). Niemiec and Ryan (2009) relate competence in a 
higher education learning environment to the actions that lead students to believe they are capable of meeting the 
challenges of their coursework. Relatedness refers to having a sense of connectedness and belonging to groups 
that share the same values, norms, and practices as one’s own belief system (Deci et al., 1991). In a learning 
environment, relatedness is associated with a student feeling valued by their teachers, of having the experience that 
their instructors or peers genuinely like, respect, and value them (Niemiec & Ryan, 2009). Finally, autonomy or self-
determination refers to the concept that one’s own actions are, as a result of one’s own choices (agency), totally 
congruent to one’s own internalised values. To experience autonomy means to experience a sense of integrity and 
self-regulation in activities in which one engages (Deci & Ryan, 2000, 2012a). This may be realized, for example, 
when students willingly devote time and energy to their studies (Niemiec & Ryan, 2009). 
SDT further aligns the fulfilment of the basic psychological needs of autonomy, competence, and relatedness with 
motivation and goals (Deci & Ryan, 2012a). In this vein, Deci and Ryan define intrinsic motivation as engaging with 
an activity because it is perceived as interesting and enjoyable; these satisfactions derive primarily from experiences 
of competence and autonomy, and, in some cases, from relatedness. As an illustration, Deci and Ryan (2012, p. 88) 
relate: 
  
160 
Volume 36 Article 10 
One typically delightful example of intrinsically motivated behaviour is children playing. In play children are 
often wholly absorbed in activities, experiencing a sense of interest and joy as they manipulate objects and 
explore their environments. As this occurs, their basic psychological needs for competence and autonomy 
are being met, as they self-organize their actions and experience effectance [competence]. 
Extrinsic motivation, on the other hand, refers to someone being externally influenced by rewards or punishments to 
regulate their behaviour (Deci & Ryan, 2012a). Extrinsic motivation is associated with a lack, or varying levels, of 
autonomy (Ryan & Deci, 2000). The degree to which extrinsic motivation may affect autonomy (in the sense of the 
individual endorsing the activity) is related to another SDT concept: internalization. One form of internalization is 
achieved when people adopt values or practices from their environment and are motivated to maintain these values 
to avoid self-censure or guilt (Deci & Ryan, 2012a). But, internalization can also occur when people identify with an 
external value and accept it as their own or, further, integrate and identify these external influences with other 
aspects of their core values and practices. Research has shown that those more autonomous types of internalization 
(e.g., associating with one’s own values) are associated with more engagement in work or coursework, perceived 
competence, and deeper conceptual learning (Deci & Ryan, 2012a). Thus, instructors’ strategies for learning and 
teaching should be geared towards increasing the opportunities for more autonomous motivation experiences in 
their student cohorts. 
In the classroom, autonomy can be supported by minimizing the importance of external measures of performance 
(i.e., controlling environments) and by maximizing students’ perceptions of having choice and influence over the 
learning activities in which they are engaged (Niemiec & Ryan, 2009). This is referred to as autonomy support and is 
achieved when the perspectives of the individual are considered, when they are encouraged to explore, when they 
take chances and initiatives, and when they are furthermore provided with some choice as to activities in which they 
will engage; in these situations, the use of control or external regulation is minimized (Deci & Ryan, 2012a). 
Autonomy-supportive contexts satisfy not only the basic psychological need for autonomy, but, to some degree, the 
other needs of competence and relatedness. When an authority figure, such as an instructor, considers a child’s or 
student’s perspective, this provides the need to be related to and allows the person in authority to encourage the 
individual to do what is necessary to satisfy their other needs (Deci & Ryan, 2012a).  
Finally, while much of SDT considers the socio-contextual factors that influence motivation, such as the autonomy 
supporting environments vs. controlling environments, it also studies differences between individuals at a personal 
level to determine if motivation is affected by personality variations (Deci & Ryan, 2012a). In this vein, the authors 
define three personality orientations: autonomous, controlled, and impersonal. Autonomy orientation is defined as 
the degree to which people tend to be inherently autonomous in their behaviour. That is, they tend to interpret their 
environments as supportive of their autonomy needs and informational regarding their potential choices; in general, 
they will tend to behave out of interest and according to their values. A person with a controlled orientation will tend 
to interpret their environment as demanding and pressurizing; in general, they are focused on rewards and 
punishments and regulate their behaviour accordingly. Finally, the impersonal orientation refers to a sense of being 
unmotivated of having little influence over outcomes (lack of agency); the environment is seen as being an 
encumbrance and impediment to personal development. Research into these orientations has shown that autonomy 
orientation is associated with self-actualization, self-esteem, and ego-development; controlled orientation is 
associated with public self-consciousness, competitiveness, and aggressiveness; while impersonal orientation is 
associated with anxiety and depressive symptoms (Deci & Ryan, 2012a). SDT posits that people will exhibit to some 
degree all three of these orientations; one orientation may be dominant; however, other orientations can become 
dominant because factors in the environment stimulate specific orientations (Deci & Ryan, 2012a). 
III. THE COURSE 
We designed the course to engage students by creating a setting that resembled the Israeli high-technology cluster. 
Association with this small but internationally successful part of the otherwise lagging Israeli economy is highly 
sought after (Senor & Singer, 2009). We asked students to self-organize into groups of either three or four members, 
similar to the self-selection of start-up founders (reflecting the SDT need for autonomy). Then, we asked each group 
to create a new business idea, preferably one that reflects their professional knowhow (reflecting competence). 
Groups were required to present their initial ideas to the class to receive feedback from other students and the 
lecturers. This procedure resembled the popular perceptions of ideation and evaluation in the high-tech cluster 
(relatedness). Groups were then required to create electronic prototypes of the business ideas and to analyze their 
value and operational principles using the conceptual frameworks presented in lectures. Finally, groups presented 
their businesses to gain “agreement to invest” either from the class and lecturers, or from a small panel of industry 
experts. 
We intended the students’ creation of new business ideas to create a sense of ownership and autonomy. Students 
were directed to select a business sector they knew well. Since the course was developed for MBA classes with 
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
161 
students in their mid- to late twenties, almost all students had professional experience. So, we asked students to 
consider their own profession for opportunities to create value and reduce transaction costs through new electronic, 
mobile, or social media channels. Often, this worked well. For example, a student working for a large investment 
house explained that a specific type of financial product was not traded in the Israeli exchange, but was still required 
by companies and often traded inefficiently. The idea to create a new specific electronic market was analyzed in 
class, and the group then created a pilot website for this electronic market. In a sense, the course aimed to translate 
students’ domain expertise or competence into a new skill of analyzing the value and operation principles of 
information technology in their domain. However, some groups preferred not to dwell on their employment 
experience and chose to develop ideas related to their behaviour as consumers. Often, this happened when 
students had advanced specific needs and operated as lead users (von Hippel, 1999). For example, one group (of 
female students) created a Facebook-based service to share experiences of fashion enthusiasts; this type of service 
was new to Israel at the time (early 2011). They succeeded in convincing the class and a sceptical (male) lecturer 
that the business would be profitable by presenting a return on investment calculation based on affiliate marketing.  
The analysis of the business ideas was done through a dialogue in class and out of class between the student 
groups and the lecturers. The idea was that the lecturers were the “owners” of the conceptual frameworks presented 
in class. Similarly, the students were the owners of the business idea and often of a specific domain expertise. The 
dialogue fulfilled both relatedness and competence needs and created iterations of ideation and analysis. The 
students suggested an idea and some domain knowledge that supported it. Then, the students were required to 
analyze their idea with one or more of the conceptual frameworks taught in class. The lecturer then questioned 
some of the detailed application of the framework to the specific domain and business idea. The result was 
sometimes a better analysis of the business idea, but sometimes the refinement of the business idea, or even an 
abandoning of the original idea for a “better idea”. An example of refining the business idea was a discussion about 
the detail of the main business process in a network of small-scale suppliers of ethnic food. Should the network 
operator provide delivery services? What are the costs of including such services? What are the risks in not 
providing them? Through the interaction of this dialogue, students would gain feedback on the salience of their 
projects from the point of view of the conceptual frameworks and better understand the frameworks.  
The interaction was not confined to a student-instructor exchange. The ideation process required interaction 
between group members because of the open-ended nature of the task. In some of the groups, a single domain 
expert emerged, and much of the interaction centered on this individual. However, our impression was that at least 
the first stages of the ideation process involved all or almost all members of most groups. A third level of interaction 
was in class between the group presenting an idea/analysis and other students of the class. This type of interaction 
was intensive when either the business ideas were relevant to consumers, or when several students shared a 
specific domain expertise; for example, when many of the students were lawyers. A final level of interactions 
between students was related to the development of the websites. During many discussions and presentations, 
students shared experiences on how to use the tools. Often, the inclusion of Hebrew text (written from right to left) in 
various contexts was non-trivial and was discussed between students.  
The ideation, analysis, feedback, and iteration process was the backbone of the course. However, in the course, we 
also aimed for students to create actual technological artefacts as prototypes for the new businesses. We focused 
on three types of artefacts: 1) an electronic Web front of the business, such as a website, mobile application, or 
Facebook page; 2) the definition of the business’ major processes, in particular those that involve customers and 
suppliers; 3) some simple automatic decision rules, or data analytics, to new business’s decisions and exemplify 
business intelligence. The goal was to provide students with both conceptual and technological tools for creating 
these information technology artefacts and to create a sense of new competency. As the students were MBAs, 
usually with no technical background, the technological tools we selected were simple and provided only an initial 
demonstration of the technological opportunities. Namely, we wanted to give the students some initial experience in 
creating webpages or Facebook communities, but we did not aim to develop full blown skills in developing websites, 
automated processes, or analytics.  
Concepts 
The first part of the course was intended to teach students how to think systematically about the strategic and 
economic aspects of technology. We started with a brief summary of strategic management, including mission, 
vision, objectives, business strategy, and Porter’s five forces of competition (Thompson, Strickland, & Gamble, 
2013). A strategic planning course was a prerequisite for the MIS course, so we briefly summarized the ideas and 
used them to describe and analyze a project that students created in one of our previous courses. We discussed in 
more detail McFarlan’s questions about the strategic value of technology (Applegate, Austin, & Soule, 2009) using 
American Airline’s Sabre as the classic case. Because we emphasized current relevance of the ideas, we 
supplemented the American Airlines case with high-frequency trading of equities as an example of how technology 
changes the basis of competition nowadays. The third subject in this part of the course was the economics of 
  
162 
Volume 36 Article 10 
technology. We introduced transaction costs economics (TCE) and briefly reviewed the ideas of Coase and 
Williamson (Tadelis & Williamson, 2012). We then used TCE to discuss in detail the electronic markets hypothesis 
(Malone, Yates, & Benjamin, 1989) and some recent empirical evidence on structure and prices in electronic 
markets (Baye, Morgan, & Scholten, 2004; Goldmanis, Hortacsu, Syverson, & Emre, 2010). Then, we discussed 
network effects and switching costs (Shapiro & Varian, 1999). We exemplified the concepts with several e-
commerce role models, including Google (Iyer & Davenport, 2008) Amazon (Bezos, Kirby, & Stewart, 2007) and 
eBay.  
Students were required to use these concepts while forming their businesses. Specifically, we asked them about the 
transaction costs in their domain and how they used various technologies (e.g., video) to reduce these costs. If 
network effects were relevant, we asked them to explain how they would achieve them and roughly at what cost by 
using Google’s AdSense to assess costs of an internet marketing campaign. The first part of the course concluded, 
in Week 5 or 6, with initial presentations of the electronic businesses. These presentations were not graded; they 
were used to create a dialogue, or relate, the “entrepreneurs” of each project and the rest of the class. Students 
were required to alter their business strategy following the feedback in these sessions. Often, businesses were 
changed quite dramatically.  
The second part of the course took an operational perspective of business technologies. The first operational 
framework was business process management; the focus was on the wider managerial concepts—Hammer’s (2007; 
Hammer & Stanton, 1999) reasoning about enterprise-wide processes, process owners, enterprise-wide 
performance measures, and systematic improvement of processes. We then presented enterprise systems, 
including ERP, CRM, and SCM, as enablers for the process management approach. In addition, we presented 
technological and organizational change in this context (McAfee & Brynjolfsson, 2008) using the debate about cloud 
computing (Iyer & Henderson, 2010) as an example. The second operational perspective was decision making, 
again starting with a wider discussion about rational and behavioral models (Kahneman, 2003), and then discussing 
organizational decision making and business intelligence (Applegate et al., 2009; Davenport, 2006]. The third and 
final aspect was sociological, starting with technological and social determinism and the socio-technical theory 
(Grint, 2005; Chapter 8) and then discussing structuration theory and its practical implication on IT usage patterns 
(Orlikowski, 2000). Following Weill and Ross (2009), we concluded the course’s lectures with a wider discussion of 
IT management. We demonstrated the concepts in this part of the course with several East-Asian case studies to 
increase awareness of the global nature of our discussion (because Israeli students usually focus on the US). The 
examples included productivity of mobile phones in rural India (Jensen, 2007), the interaction of technology and 
social prejudice to unbalance male and female births (Economist, 2010), and empowerment of workers at Seven-
Eleven Japan (Weill & Ross, 2009)]. 
The students were required to address these IT-related operational concepts in their projects. At a minimum, 
students had to construct the main supplier- and customer-related business processes, and discuss data needs and 
decision making in their businesses. We awarded extra points when they discussed social aspects. The final two 
classes were devoted to students’ presentations of their businesses. Industrial panels helped us grade the 
presentations. The panels included two or three e-commerce experts who shared their experiences and expressed 
their willingness, or otherwise, to consider investing in the students’ projects. Table 1 outlines the weekly course 
topics and supporting case studies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
163 
Table 1. Course Outline 
Week Concepts Cases/examples 
1 
Outline of the course 
A students’ e-business (from an earlier 
course) 
2 Summary of strategic management 
strategic value of technology 
American Airlines 
High-frequency trading 
3 Transaction cost economics 
the electronic markets hypothesis 
Structure and prices at travel agencies, 
bookstores and car dealerships (2010) 
4 Economics of technology: switching 
costs and network externalities  
Google, Amazon, eBay 
5-6 Initial e-business presentations and class feedback 
7 Business process management  
enterprise systems 
CVS caremark 
8 Rational & behavioral decision making 
business intelligence 
Mobile phones at Kerala Fisheries 
Marriot International 
9 Socio-technical theory 
structuration  
South Asia gender unbalance 
Lotus notes at ‘alpha’ 
10 IT management Seven Eleven Japan 
11-12 Final e-business presentations to an industrial expert panel 
Tools 
Our success in this aspect of the course was only partial. We had experimented with several Web-authoring 
packages, such as OS Commerce, Google Sites, Wix, and Weebly. All provided drag and drop tools to create 
websites; students found them easy enough for creating the required websites. We advised students to use either 
the Weebly free website authoring tool or Wix, a free Flash website builder. For business processes, we 
experimented with Business One, a small business ERP solution from SAP. Although the package was intuitive and 
easy to use, we did not recommend it for the later instances of the course delivery because of the difficulty in 
integrating data from the website (for example, customer contact information) with Business One’s forms and 
processes. It probably reflected a difference in technological style; Business One is an enterprise-wide application 
but not a native Web-based solution. We planned to use the Salesforce Web-based CRM for the operational 
artifacts of the course; it was easy to integrate data from websites into Salesforce. As for decision making and 
business intelligence, we had experimented with Google Analytics on the traffic to the projects’ websites; however, 
the traffic was so small, that the decision rules and related analysis seemed meaningless. We are still looking for 
ideas on how to create an actual demonstration of business intelligence in our context, such as by creating more 
traffic to the websites and then analyzing it. 
Electronic Businesses  
We started teaching this course during 2009 and, by the 2011 spring semester, we had taught five classes with 
more than two hundred students and many dozens of electronic businesses. Indeed, these businesses reflected our 
aim to achieve continuous relevance. All the first semester projects were Internet based; many business ideas 
during the 2011 semesters were mobile applications and some projects were based on social networks. The quality 
of business ideas varied widely; however, even the more mundane ideas were useful in the application and analysis 
of the course’s concepts.  
In order to illustrate the type and quality of business ideas, the following four projects are some of the best 
suggested by the five classes we taught during 2010 and 2011. 
Business idea 1: an electronic market for home-cooked ethnic food. Four students, led by a student who was, at 
the time, self-employed as a producer of events and parties, developed this idea. The group suggested creating a 
network of housewives skilled at home cooking ethnic food, typically from the less prosperous suburbs of Tel-Aviv. 
The other side of the suggested market were affluent technology-savvy young professionals. The group showed that 
takeaway food was often purchased through Internet websites, while the specific service they proposed had not yet 
been available in Israel. Given the nature of this business idea, there were many short discussions in class about it, 
and specifically about service quality. An important realization was that the delivery process was critical and should 
probably be organized by the new venture. The group’s final business plan specified two models of delivery: 
outsourcing and in-sourcing, and the group discussed their feasibility. The business plan used also ideas about 
transaction costs and network effects to analyze the two sides of the market. For example, they discussed the 
reputation mechanism for the meal suppliers and the social network aspects for the customers.  
  
164 
Volume 36 Article 10 
Business idea 2: an electronic marketing service for law offices. Three students, working as lawyers, explained in 
class that the Israeli bar association had allowed lawyers to electronically market their law offices just three months 
earlier. At the time, there were already about 3,000 law office websites. The group expected that many more of the 
45,000 or so Israeli lawyers would create websites, social media pages, and mobile applications to market their 
services. However, there were few, and they were mostly websites for small companies catering for the marketing 
needs of law offices. The group explained that marketing legal services was governed by strict rules about content 
and media. They suggested creating a business that would provide compliance services. These could be performed 
semi-automatically and would be used as an entry strategy into this emerging sector. Using ideas about the 
economics of IT, they suggested a freemium revenue model. Basic compliance alerts would be free, while full 
compliance monitoring, search engine optimization, and website and social network construction would be charged.  
Business idea 3: an Israeli fashion-sharing social network. A group of students employed by ad agencies 
suggested creating a Facebook-based business aiming at young women in Israel who wish to share their experience 
related to fashion. There was an ongoing discussion about the commercial viability of such a venture. The lecturer 
and some of the other students doubted that large fashion chains would cooperate. If this is so easy, why would the 
fashion chains not create such a network themselves? The entrepreneurs answered these doubts by demonstrating 
the limits of Internet marketing efforts by the major fashion chains in Israel. They succeeded in convincing us that 
the large chains will not cater for the community aspect of fashion, and, if they succeed in creating a large enough 
electronic community, their business would be viable. They created quickly some traffic in their Share-Your-Style 
pages coming from their own friends. They showed that that their costs were minimal, and their expectations of 
advertisement revenue from the large Israeli chains seemed to be reasonable.  
Business idea 4: a mobile loyalty application. Two students who worked as programmers at a large bank 
suggested a mobile application for small shops to create loyalty programs for the shops’ customers. The students 
showed that it would be very easy to customize an open source CRM package. This would reduce their deployment 
costs and a minimal initial investment. Using ideas from transaction cost economics, they suggested a lock-in 
mechanism: free of charge subscription for the first year and inexpensive charges for subsequent years. They 
assumed that some of the shops would appreciate access to data about existing customers and thus would accept 
this revenue model.  
IV. ANALYSIS 
Student Evaluation Surveys 
The college surveys students at the end of each semester about their course evaluations. These are voluntary 
Internet surveys that include eleven questions about each course. They cover general impressions about the course 
and lecturer, acquired knowledge, assignments, teaching assistant, learning portal, and classroom.  
Table 2 presents a cluster analysis of student evaluation questionnaires of two courses given during the Fall 
semester 2010/2011. We had two general MBA classes with 54 and 46 students and, as much as we could tell, the 
classes were homogenous. Aggregating the 25 and 29 respondents from the two classes, we performed the 
following cluster analysis procedure: we included all survey questions including ones about the lecturer, teaching 
assistant, portal, and classroom; we identified and removed outliers (six respondents); we performed a cluster 
analysis in which we allowed SPSS to choose the number of clusters. Table 2 reports the averages of the course-
related questions in the two clusters; the survey uses a seven point scale and high values correspond to answers 
such as “very good” or “very much”; standard deviations are reported in parentheses. The significant difference 
between the clusters becomes clearer with medians rather than averages: for example, the median of the overall 
evaluation of the course is 4.0 in one cluster and 6.0 in the other. Verbal comments by students, which are part of 
the survey, include comments such as “the most relevant and interesting course in my MBA studies”, “too difficult, 
demands too much work”, and “too many subjects, not organized, superficial”. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
165 
Table 2. Student Evaluations, 2 General MBA Classes, Fall 2010/2011 
Number of students 100 
Number of respondents 54 
 Cluster 1 Cluster 2 
Number of respondents in this cluster 20 28 
Questionnaire items 
What is your overall evaluation of the course? 4.5 (1.0) 5.5 (1.2) 
How much relevant knowledge did you gain from this 
course? 
4.1 (1.1) 5.3 (1.3) 
How much did the assignments contribute in achieving the 
course’s goals? 
4.0 (1.3) 5.1 (1.5) 
How interesting was the course? 4.6 (1.2) 6.2 (1.0) 
 
Table 3 presents the main results for two other classes we taught during the Spring 2011 semester. Both classes 
were MBA students, one an executive MBA for lawyers majoring in finance, and the other a general MBA with about 
half of the students with a BA degree in media and communication (the college has a large media school).  
Our reading of Table 3 shows that the more-experienced, somewhat older lawyers in the executive MBA class did 
not like the course and did not see the point of the projects. However, the younger media-oriented general MBA 
class liked the course and projects. Furthermore, comparing these results to the average evaluation in all the 
general MBA courses (5.1), it is interesting to note that the general MBA students found the course better than the 
average MBA course, which is uncommon for MIS or technology management courses.  
Table 3. Student Evaluations, 2 MBA Classes, Spring 2010/2011 
 MBA 
for lawyers 
General 
MBA 
Number of students 27 50 
Number of respondents 15 31 
Questionnaire items 
What is your overall evaluation of the course? 4.2 (1.6) 5.1 (1.7) 
How much relevant knowledge did you gain from this 
course? 
4.3 (1.9) 5.1 (1.8) 
How much did the assignments contribute in achieving the 
course’s goals? 
3.9 (1.6) 5.1 (1.8) 
How interesting was the course? 4.1 (2.0) 5.6 (2.0) 
Interviews 
The quantitative results demonstrate two opposing views towards the course; therefore, we used interviews to 
further investigate the underlying reasons for these divergent opinions. This approach is compatible with mixed-
methods research design, which promotes the use of both quantitative and qualitative methods to complement each 
other. For example, broad-based survey results could be complemented with detailed views on the meaning of those 
results (Creswell, 2003). We selected and interviewed a convenience sample of four students from the Spring 
2010/2011 cohort. Selecting the number of interviews in a qualitative study is not an exact science and is very much 
based on the context of the study and the research objectives (Baker & Edwards, 2012). We performed these 
interviews to follow up on the issues raised by the larger, representative survey; hence, a few “voices” from the 
student cohort was enough (Creswell, 2003).  
We selected the students based on performance, one with a grade in the top 10% of the grade distribution (labelled 
as RL), two with grades in the median band of the grade distribution (labelled as TR and AM), and one student 10% 
below the median (NN). The resulting sample comprised one student from the executive MBA lawyer group, and 
three from the general MBA group. We contacted the students by email one year after the course had been 
completed and asked them to participate in a short interview (30 minutes). This one-year gap allowed for a wider, 
longer-term perspective of the course; that is, a perspective that did not necessarily reflect the results of the course 
but rather its aftermath, providing some distance between the immediate consequences of the course and the 
students’ feelings. We conducted and recorded the interviews themselves via Skype/telephone in English. We 
subsequently transcribed and analysed the recordings with the help of QSR International’s NVivo1 qualitative 
analysis software. The interviewer was the only member of the co-authors who had not met or interacted with the 
                                                     
1 http://www.qsrinternational.com/ 
  
166 
Volume 36 Article 10 
students beforehand; therefore, some degree of objectivism was established in the process. The fact that the 
interviewer spoke no Hebrew and conducted the interviews by referring to the lecturing staff in a formal way also put 
some distance between the interviewer and interviewees. 
The interview consisted of six semi-structured questions querying the students’ level of engagement with the course 
and how the entrepreneurial flavour of the course, which was meant to mirror an entrepreneurial culture in Israel, 
affected that engagement. They were asked how motivated they were by the given task (i.e., that they should create 
a project as a means of being assessed in the course). Questions were raised about their imagination and creativity 
in developing new ideas for their projects, how persuasive they were in convincing others about the viability of their 
project, their judgement in validating the project, and their feelings of ownership over the project. They were also 
asked whether the course worked, achieved its objectives, and whether they learnt skills or concepts from the 
process. 
We performed thematic coding as part of the analysis of the transcribed interviews (Miles & Huberman, 1994). This 
is a qualitative data analytical method in which coding categories are selected and segments of data (in this case, 
chunks of transcribed text) are associated with those coding categories. In our case, we drew the coding categories 
from the SDT concepts explained in Section 2. Two authors coded the transcripts together and discussed the coding 
between themselves to agree on common understandings of the coded segments. In reporting the results, we 
agreed on a protocol as described here. Where the respondents perceived the SDT concepts negatively, we coded 
them as “lack of” the particular concept; for example, where the respondent did not perceive much autonomy over 
their conduct in the course, this was coded as “lack of autonomy”. We subsequently grouped the codes into five 
categories: personality, motivation, SDT needs, environment, and outcome. Table 4 and Figure 1 present the 
frequency of coding of the concepts in the transcripts of the four interviews. In later stages of analysis, we also relate 
coding categories to each other: we report on these relationships in the latter part of this section.  
Table 4. Frequency of Coding of SDT Concepts in the Four Interviews 
Categories Concepts Coded Student 
AM 
Student 
NN 
Student 
TR 
Student 
RL 
Personality 
Autonomy orientation - - 7.8% 3.0% 
Controlled Orientation - 1.4% - - 
Impersonal Orientation 23.5% 25.2% - - 
Motivation 
Intrinsic motivation - - 11.1% 5.9% 
Extrinsic motivation - 7.3% - - 
Internalization - - - 1.2% 
SDT Needs 
Autonomy - - 15.6% 5.8% 
Lack of autonomy - 1.6% - - 
Competence - - 24.4% 14.2% 
Lack of competence 18.8% 10.2% - - 
Relatedness 7.5% 6.4% 22.2% 7.2% 
Lack of relatedness 10.9% - - - 
Environment 
Autonomy support - 6.4% 13.7% 19.0% 
Lack of autonomy support 29.0% 26.2% - - 
Outcome 
Performance  - - 14.7% 6.7% 
Lack of performance - 7.1% - - 
Surface Learning 5.2% 4.7% - - 
 
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
167 
 
Figure 1. The Frequency of Coding of SDT Concepts in the Four Interviews 
 
Figure 2 includes an alternative representation of concepts that are expressed in a “negative” way by the 
respondents (i.e., concepts that represent the “lack of” dimension as described above). We assigned these concepts 
with negative percentages; therefore, the resulting figure illustrates that concept below the x-axis of the chart but in 
the category it was negating. For example, we represented lack of autonomy as a negative frequency in the chart 
under “autonomy” to become the “negative” dimension of that concept. Where the interviews seemed to support 
both the concept and its “negative” dimension, we list the two concepts in the figure with one above the x-axis and 
one below the x-axis with two different categorisations. This occurred in the case of “relatedness” and “autonomy 
support”, where we found both “positive” and “negative” dimensions to the responses; therefore, they were 
represented in the figure as “relatedness” and “autonomy support” above the x-axis and “relatedness (lack)” and 
“autonomy support (lack)” below the x-axis. The resulting figure shows clearly that there was a split between the two 
pairs of interviewees: one was positive about the five concepts being measured, and one was generally negative 
about the same concepts. 
  
168 
Volume 36 Article 10 
 
Figure 2. SDT Concept Frequency with Negative and Positive Aspects 
 
The figure also demonstrates that interviewees who had strong perceptions of autonomy orientation (TR, RL), also 
showed strong inclinations towards intrinsic motivation, fulfilment of basic psychological needs according to SDT, 
autonomy-supporting environments and showed good performance. Similarly, interviewees who indicated an 
impersonal orientation also showed strong inclinations towards extrinsic motivation, did not perceive fulfilment of 
their basic psychological needs, perceived lack of autonomy support in their environment, and demonstrated lack of 
performance and surface learning. We describe these relationships for each interview below. 
AM Interview 
When interviewed, AM expressed strong personal viewpoints that there was insufficient support provided by the 
course to enable the class to do well, which demonstrates a lack of autonomy support. These viewpoints can be 
evidenced by quotes such as: 
The guideline was unnecessarily complicated…. I heard things more them once, I felt kind of bored, and I 
don’t really know how you can teach this kind of important stuff like being entrepreneurs. I think it’s not the 
kind of thing that you can lecture about. 
AM also spoke quite frequently about not having much influence over the outcomes of her studies and pointed out 
that the learning environment was more of a hindrance than a help to achieving the course’s objectives; for example, 
the fact that students had no choice but to be made to work in groups, which may or may not work in achieving the 
course outcomes. As a result, AM was self-critical: she assumed a lack of success as compared to others in the 
course, and thus demonstrated a lack of competence: 
For some people, building the website is an easy task and for others it’s quite complicated because the 
website most people did in class was the full website, they have a basic template, and you just need to put 
in all your visuals and you just put the text in too, so it doesn’t look like a really professional website, it’s 
quite simple and for a business, a real business, you need a real website, not something that has some 
funny ending like .weebly.com. 
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
169 
There were kind of theoretical terms that [the lecturer] posed for the course sessions. It is... it comes back to 
your first questions where I told you that, either you have it or you don’t have it, you can learn the terms, but 
if you [are not entrepreneurial] you can’t take it one step ahead. 
AM also claimed a lack of support from the lecturer in developing the project ideas, which led to some feelings of 
lack of relatedness. At the same time, paradoxically, AM also felt relatedness to the entrepreneurs in Israeli society, 
the culture that this engendered, and the role AM claimed to have played in participating in a protest against Israel’s 
high cost of living, which the project attempted to deal with. The following quotes illustrate: 
And maybe [the lecturer] was kind of afraid…to accept it because the technology part, in order to succeed in 
this, we said we might do it by scanning QRs and a year ago people didn’t really know what was QR [quick 
response code]…. One of the problems in the course that I have experienced, is that I have the sense that 
my idea is good and on the one side I wanted to share my idea with the class and tell it to [the lecturer], but 
on the other side, if it is too good, I do not want someone else to come and take my idea, so this is kind of a 
complex situation. 
The interviewee’s overall perception of learning in the course was at a surface level and not much more. AM claimed 
that the content was something that was more related to common sense and not academic material that could be 
learnt in a course. At the same time, AM spoke about conceptual aspects as “unnecessarily complicated”. AM’s 
focus was on learning how to be an “entrepreneur”. She did not recognize that this was just a vehicle to study MIS 
concepts in a particular context. She therefore misunderstood the course’s aim. 
NN Interview 
Similarly to AM, NN felt that there was not enough support in the learning environment in order to be more 
successful in the course, such as the group method of teaching. 
 Not to impose the course theory on them because there were a lot of things that [the lecturer] taught, that 
would not, did not match our project and we had to impose the answers and obviously when it does not 
match, you are forcing it you know, you’re just forcing it to something that is not natural for the answer to be, 
it’s like if you keep trying to teach a ballerina how to dance jazz. 
Like AM, NN also felt that the environment was a hindrance rather than a help to achieving the course objectives. 
NN’s views pertained to the wider environment as well: they referred to the busy life that MBA students in particular 
had to juggle 
Most of us have families and regular jobs that we have to attend to and it is very difficult to find the time to 
get together. It was very complicated because tasks were interesting and we had to be very creative and to 
put some work into it and once you don’t have the time to get together as 5 people, it’s is un-motivating. 
As a student, I did not see that [developing a good project] as a possibility because there was so much 
pressure and you know, we just did not have much time to do that. But now especially when I am on … 
leave I see that if you have a little time, you can do wonders, and [the lecturer] saw that and believed in that 
but I think he has to strengthen that. 
NN also experienced feelings of failure to achieve appropriate levels of competence in meeting the course 
objectives. 
The project we had to do was an online website on which you could do deliveries, you know if you have TV 
services come to your house or phone services, it was not successful because. They wouldn’t want to work 
with us as a subcontractor, because then they would have to make their services more expensive because 
they would have to pay us, so there were a lot of flaws in our plan, which we did not have the time or the 
energy to think through, that’s why our grade was…so-so. 
Thus NN was mainly motivated by external factors (extrinsic motivation) to complete the course and, as a result, felt 
the group’s performance was not that impressive. 
I don’t know, we just did our best and the grades were according to that, they weren’t so great. I think it was 
C or B-…. I don't think so, no, me for myself, I did not have the time or the energy to do that [project], but in 
general this is how I see my MBA studies, I did everything in the minimum just to get the grade. 
  
170 
Volume 36 Article 10 
Interestingly, NN complained about the group nature of the project but actually found this to be a positive influence 
via feeling a sense of relatedness to the other colleagues. 
We found good people that can help, except for one, … but I think the interaction went very well especially if 
you have friends there. Every time there is one person that pushes harder than the others, it changes, you 
know, one week I push harder, the next week my friend pushes harder but I think all in all, we had a good 
interaction a lot of emailing, exchanging over the phone, or texts, it was very good. 
Again, NN displayed surface learning. She recalled the course as a way to learn a lot about how to use the World 
Wide Web as a tool for creating interesting business ideas; NN had little or no recollection about the underlying MIS 
concepts that were supposed to be delivered as part of this course. 
Additionally, NN also mentioned being “ashamed” at a personal level due to lack of achievement (in her  own 
opinion) in the course: she cited the prevailing attitude in Israel towards MBA studies, which are part-time, as a main 
impediment. In this way, NN acknowledged a lack of autonomy in controlling the learning event. 
TR Interview 
Contrary to the interviewees above, TR had a strong perception of competence in the work for the course. TR 
stressed the importance and utility of the idea and the fact that it could be developed into something marketable. 
We come up with the idea that you can speak to your phone and it will translate it to SMS …. We called the 
idea, that venture STSMS—speech to SMS, and I think it was quite a brilliant idea but I don’t know why I 
didn’t have time to develop it but I think that...I believe that in the near future we will find some product like 
this in the market. 
I think everyone saw and understood the potential. Of course, we spoke about numbers and economic 
models for the venture, but I think in general the strongest thing was the notion that everybody thought 
about this, that they might use this idea or technology. 
Along with feelings of competence was a strong sense of relatedness, especially with respect to the group TR 
worked with, their acceptance of the idea, and their willingness to work to develop that idea. There was also a sense 
of relatedness to the lecturer in that the idea was accepted and that the lecturer was supportive of it. 
Actually we considered a few ideas … we spoke about the advantages and disadvantages and in the 
general items, I think the idea which I came up with was nice and good and we thought and we figured out 
that it can be developed because there was available technology and also [the lecturer] also put in his input 
and we discussed with him and after we considered all the items, we concluded this speech to SMS was a 
great idea. 
There was also a sense of relatedness to the software industry or other technologists as a whole, which the 
following comment evidences: 
I was discussing with a few friends of mine who were working in the Hi-Tech industry , it had good potential 
and [could be built] with relevant technologies that we don’t have to develop, but only do a joint venture or 
buy the technology from the other side. 
TR also showed inclinations towards satisfaction of autonomy needs since the project seemed to satisfy some 
personal objectives. 
I was very happy and it was very satisfying because to come up with an idea, with something that you think 
is needed in the market it is quite fulfilling, it was very nice and all the processes with [the lecturer] and with 
my fellows in the group, it was very nice. 
TR expressed an experience in this course that was quite different to achievements in other degree courses—it was 
an experience in learning to think in different ways: 
I may have two degrees in Law, but I don’t have a technological background; [the lecturer] also introduced 
us to technologies in the Web and everything that I was not aware of, so I think it was much more interesting 
and exciting and new for me … you can say you learn how to think and to develop things “out of the box”, 
not in the traditional way. 
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
171 
TR also felt that the environment was broadly supportive of learning as compared for example with other courses: 
From my point of view, I think it is much more interesting to take part in a venture that you are part of it 
[rather than] analyzing or discussing a case study. We have another course which is called strategy that we 
are doing, analyzing a lot of case studies, it’s nice but I think it’s more lively…. [It’s] fascinating to take part in 
the venture that you are a part of and you develop and analyze it. So I think the combination of the 
background, of the theoretical background and the practical experience was great and was very successful 
from my point of view. 
Much of what TR expressed seemed to give credence to a sense of enjoying the course, of finding it “nice and 
refreshing”, “fascinating”, and “interesting and exciting”. TR’s comments also an inclination towards an autonomy 
orientation since he spoke of an environment that supported the development of the project idea and that others 
were helpful towards this goal and provided useful developmental ideas. 
RL Interview 
The strongest impression reported by RL was one of autonomy support in that the project encouraged interaction 
and interest. The fact that the class was divided into groups, that students needed to use their imagination, that 
students were encouraged to defend their projects were all positively presented by RL. 
It was very easy, it was so much different than other projects I did in school, like just a paper you have to 
write, it’s something that you have to really, like be interactive with, you have to really build something. I 
think it was very interactive. If you would ask me, I am on the last semester now so if you would ask me 
what are the one or two classes you remember that most, like in a positive way, like you were saying, I 
would say this class. 
Also, RL reported that the group were able to demonstrate their competence in the task due to being able to 
accomplish activities and initiate ideas: 
What we did was we divided the work between us into different aspects. So, for example, the [one] who is 
working in financing, …did the research part for the, [economic part], I mean, if this kind of business would 
be economical and, one person did the writing of the paragraphs, the thing we wanted to write, on the text 
… and I did the design, so each person did something different, brought his..., what he knows best to do. 
RL also reported that there was the possibility of building on this project to create a business: “The fact that we did 
not do anything with it afterwards but at the same time we really wanted to ‘yea, it’s so good, we gonna make a lot of 
money’, we believed in it.”. 
There were also some sentiments regarding relatedness that RL expressed with regard to the interest the lecturer 
demonstrated, to the other members of the group as a whole, and even towards famous entrepreneurs such as Jeff 
Bezos (founder of Amazon.com): “It was a group effort.... I think that everybody thought that they can really bring 
something from themselves into the project.” 
In terms of performance, RL seemed to grasp the main ideas of the course and not just the means by which the 
course was delivered. He recollected, for example, some of the underlying concepts such as competitive advantage 
and adding value through technology: 
Your idea you have to sell something using technology, using, in our case, the Internet, has to be 
[developed] in a way that, like I said before, it gives you the added value and not just “oh, okay I can sell it in 
a store and also in the Internet”. No, it has to have this uniqueness, using the technology will have to bring 
the added value, and ... competitive advantage …In a way this has to be our unique competitive advantage. 
RL also displayed high levels of autonomy with motivational levels along the lines of intrinsic motivation, speaking, 
for example, quite a bit about enjoyment of the course: 
I was very excited with that project because it was something new, different from the other projects you get 
to do in school, so I was very excited and enthusiastic to do it and I put a lot of energy into it and I was very 
excited. 
  
172 
Volume 36 Article 10 
A few comments from RL suggest being able to identify with the project and relate the concepts to personal values: 
“I know that in the end people really were proud of the project, really, they were proud of it and it was important you 
know, I think what I am trying to say is that they felt that they cared about it, really.”. 
Relationship of Concepts Within Interviews 
In the case of AM, an impersonal orientation was linked to a feeling of lack of autonomy support from the learning 
environment; that is, the way the course was structured. Accordingly, the basic psychological needs of competence 
and relatedness were not being met. This led to a lack of deep learning. AM did not appreciate or understand the 
conceptual frameworks that were part of the MIS underpinnings of the course and instead viewed them as 
unnecessary additions. 
For NN, an impersonal orientation was also linked to a feeling of lack of autonomy support. Here, NN reflected on 
the lack of support in general for MBA students and not specifically in this particular course. The situation in which 
the students found themselves was thought to contribute to not being able to have much control over the outcomes 
of learning. NN also reported basic psychological needs not being met in terms of lack of autonomy and lack of 
competence, although relatedness was being met to some extent. This led to only satisfying the external 
requirements of the course; that is, being extrinsically motivated and to a general lack of performance and deep 
learning. 
TR showed some autonomy orientation and felt that the environment was supportive of autonomy and reported high 
levels of all basic psychological needs being met, especially competence and relatedness. TR also reported high 
levels of intrinsic motivation, which led to a feeling of satisfaction with the relevant performance and learning. 
RL, although not relating much information about personality orientation, did mention some aspects related to 
autonomy orientation. RL was more concerned with how the environment supported autonomy. This also led to 
satisfaction of basic psychological needs, more in the vein of competence in comparison to relatedness and 
autonomy. RL was also able to report levels of intrinsic motivation and was the only one who related the course to 
deeper core values (internalization). RL was also satisfied with the relevant performance and saw the bigger picture 
of course much better than other interviewees. 
Relationship Across Interviews 
The findings strongly support the SDT theory as Figure 3 shows. 
Personality
Basic 
Psychological 
Needs
Environment 
Support
Motivation Performance
 
Figure 3. Relationships Between the Coded Categories as Represented in the Interview Analysis 
 
One surprising area in the findings was to see three different levels of relatedness occurring in the sample: (1) 
relatedness to several wider groups outside of the academic environment (e.g., the Israeli hi-tech industry, well-
known entrepreneurs such as Amazon’s founder, or social movements), (2) relatedness to the instructor in this 
specific course, and (3) relatedness to the members of the project teams (i.e., peers). This is surprising because (1) 
no other dimension of SDT appeared so consistently throughout the interviews, (2) no other dimension appeared at 
so many levels of abstraction, and (3) we did not expect this dimension to occur in relation to groups outside of the 
teaching environment. The course found a way to meet at least one basic psychological need across all 
interviewees regardless of their performance. We discuss this result in more detail in Section 5. 
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
173 
V. DISCUSSION 
This paper describes an entrepreneurial approach for teaching a management information systems course. Using 
ideas from self-determination theory (SDT) (Deci & Ryan, 2012a, 2012b), the course builds on the basic 
psychological needs for autonomy, competence and relatedness to create autonomous motivation and engagement 
in students. Student groups are required to initiate new electronic businesses, build prototypes of their electronic 
Web fronts, and describe business processes. In addition, several conceptual frameworks or information technology 
as related to markets and organisations are taught and the students are required to analyze their ventures with 
these concepts. Market aspects include strategic analysis, discussion of opportunities to influence transaction costs 
via technology, and assessment of network externalities. Organisational aspects include descriptions of the main 
business processes and descriptions of decision making and data analytics.  
We started teaching this course during 2009 and, by the 2011 spring semester, we had five classes with more than 
two hundred students. The current paper uses feedback from the 2011 Spring cohort to analyze student 
engagement. We found two distinct clusters in this cohort: 52 percent of respondents thought highly of the course 
(median evaluation was 6 out of 7); about 37 percent of respondents were not enthusiastic with the course (median 
evaluation was 4 out of 7). We conducted interviews with four students and found out a similar split: “I think that 
everybody thought that they can really bring something from themselves into the project … in the end, people really 
were proud of the project … they felt that they cared about it, really” on one side, while another student felt “There 
were kind of theoretical terms that [the lecturer] posed for the course sessions…. Either you have it or you don’t 
have it—you can learn the terms, but if you [are not entrepreneurial] you can’t take it one step ahead.”. 
In this paper, we analyze these results through SDT. We found that the structure of the course was able to engage 
some students in the learning process to the extent that they were excited and motivated. At the same time, it also 
disincentivized and demotivated some students such that their performance was unsatisfactory to them and their 
learning incomplete. Thus, the overall effect was not uniform. We interpret the positive effect to be related to 
autonomy support and positive feedback. As Deci and Ryan (2008, p. 418) state “events such as positive feedback 
that lead to perceived competence by supporting the competence need, will enhance intrinsic motivation”. In the 
same vein, we interpret the negative effect as being related to the informational aspect of negative feedback. 
Consider, for example, Deci and Ryan’s (2008, p. 418) assertion that “if the competence information is sufficiently 
negative, indicating that people are too incompetent to attain desired outcomes, it could undermine both intrinsic and 
extrinsic motivation, leaving individuals amotivated”; namely, negative feedback on the student’s own choice is 
highly detrimental. Additionally, lack of engagement could have been related to an excess amount of tasks that 
students needed to perform because of the entrepreneurial nature of the project. Finally, these negative effects 
could possibly relate to the individual student’s personality orientation and sense of agency (Niemiec & Ryan, 2009; 
Maclellan, 2008). The four interviewees were split into two groups, one of which expressed general satisfaction and 
support for their psychological needs, and the other of which expressed lack of interest and motivation in the course. 
The interview analysis also revealed that the relationships between personality orientation, learning environment, 
basic psychological needs, motivation, and outcomes were consistent with the theoretical perspective chosen for 
this study: SDT. The results match well with the expected positions of the theory; namely, that the two students who 
expressed autonomy orientation felt that their environment was supportive, that their psychological needs were 
being met, and who indicated they had high motivation (Ryan & Deci, 2000). Students who expressed tendencies 
toward an impersonal or controlled orientation found the learning environment a hindrance, found that it did not fulfill 
their psychological needs, and they expressed low motivation towards the course. Although we believe the course 
provided the structure and support for autonomous student-centered learning, the personality orientations of the 
students, it appears, either enhanced or hindered their levels of motivation, and thus their performance. This 
emphasizes the need for agency on the part of the student, that is, the need for the student to assume some 
responsibility for their learning behaviour beyond what the environment may be able to provide (Schunk et al., 2013). 
As Pintrich (2004) states: 
[It is] not just individuals’ cultural, demographic, or personality characteristics that influence achievement 
and learning directly, nor just the contextual characteristics of the classroom environment that shape 
achievement, but the individuals’ self-regulation of their cognition, motivation, and behaviour that mediate 
the relations between the person, context, and eventual achievement. 
The course also consistently seemed to appeal to the relatedness aspect of the three basic psychological needs 
according to SDT, and did so at the three levels identified in our findings. We can partly explain this by the group-
work structure to which the students were expected to adhere. Groupwork has been shown to be linked to student 
motivation, especially where choice is exercised over group formation (Ciani, Summers, Easter, & Sheldon, 2008). 
Additionally, the instructor’s role as mentor and facilitator would also have influenced an almost paternalistic sense 
of relatedness. This would explain at least two of the levels of relatedness found in the study (i.e., relatedness to 
peers and relatedness to the instructor). The other aspect of relatedness engendered by the course, even among 
  
174 
Volume 36 Article 10 
students who failed to find autonomy support or to express feelings of competence, was a strong sense of belonging 
to groups external to the course, but somehow in the student’s mind intrinsic to the course objectives. We can 
explain the sense of relatedness to the Israeli high-tech cluster and well-known e-business entrepreneurs by the 
entrepreneurial and e-business-based orientation adopted for the course and the cultural associations that Israeli 
MBA students might make with such an orientation (Senor & Singer, 2009). In fact, the need to be entrepreneurial or 
to be able to see oneself as an entrepreneur also seemed to factor highly into the other relatedness claim, that of 
belonging to a politically active group to which the entrepreneurial spirit could also be oriented. This aspect of the 
course appeared to engender strong emotions in the student cohort. 
V. CONCLUSION 
To conclude, we discuss the study’s implications for practice and its limitations. As a guideline for policy in teaching 
MIS, we follow previous advice to experiment with new teaching methods in order to engage students (Austin at al., 
2009; Aitken & Hatt, 2012; Whelan & Firth, 2012). However, the SDT-based analysis shows that it would be 
advisable to provide students with a choice of traditional teaching methods (textbook and cases) and entrepreneurial 
or other practice-based methods. The courses should be described in detail in the programme prospectus with an 
emphasis on the tasks that students should do in completing the course. Alternative semesters for each stream 
would be a practical means of delivering these alternate streams without compromising resources. Students could 
then select the stream that they wish to take. Thus, teaching methods become self-selected (c.f. DeCosta, 2011). 
The four interviewees in this research would clearly have benefited from such self-selection based on the responses 
they provided: two would most likely have opted for the entrepreneurial approach, and two would have opted for the 
traditional instruction-based approach since the complexity of the course delivery was too challenging for them. 
The study is limited in its generalizability to other countries and contexts since the course focused on imitating 
entrepreneurial ventures in the Israeli hi-tech cluster. There are, however, other countries and contexts where 
innovation may be encouraged by government interventions and an entrepreneurial culture may be continually 
discussed in the public domain. In such contexts, this entrepreneurial approach to teaching MIS may be successful. 
Our results are clearly limited by the fact that we analyzed the results of a limited sample of student cohorts in only 
one academic year. Therefore, our quantitative and qualitative data are limited to less than a hundred questionnaires 
and four interviews. However. even with these limitations, the current analysis adequately demonstrates the 
opportunities and challenges in attempting a unique approach to MIS teaching. 
We believe that this study has implications beyond the MIS course we describe and analyze. Information technology 
creates opportunities for new teaching methods (Kapp, 2012). These include entrepreneurial projects, business 
game simulation, smartphone voting systems, debating and voting in social media, and different variations on online 
and video-based courses. The analysis in this paper shows that these methods may create motivation and 
engagement with many students, but they may demotivate others, and our role as teachers is to align technologies 
with students’ orientations and needs.  
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
We are very grateful to Erela Amit of the College of Management, Rishon-le-Zion, Israel, for her support and 
encouragement in developing and teaching this course. We are also grateful to SAP Israel for their help with the 
Business One package. 
REFERENCES 
Editor’s Note: The following reference list contains hyperlinks to World Wide Web pages. Readers who have the 
ability to access the Web directly from their word processor or are reading the paper on the Web, can gain direct 
access to these linked references. Readers are warned, however, that:  
1. These links existed as of the date of publication but are not guaranteed to be working thereafter. 
2. The contents of Web pages may change over time. Where version information is provided in the 
References, different versions may not contain the information or the conclusions referenced. 
3. The author(s) of the Web pages, not AIS, is (are) responsible for the accuracy of their content. 
4. The author(s) of this article, not AIS, is (are) responsible for the accuracy of the URL and version 
information. 
 
Applegate, L., Austin, R., & Soule, D. (2009). Corporate information strategy and management (8th edn). Burr Ridge, 
IL: McGraw Hill. 
Aitken, A. M., & Hatt, G. (2012). Creating value in an introductory business IS and IT unit. Proceedings of the 23rd 
Australasian Conference on Information Systems. 
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
175 
Austin, R. D., Nolan, R. L., & O’Donnell, S. (2009). A “novel” approach to the design of an IS management course. 
Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 24(19), 315-332. 
Baker, S. E., & Edwards, R. (2012). How many qualitative interviews is enough?: Expert voices and early career 
reflections on sampling and cases in qualitative research. UK: National Centre for Research Methods, 
Economic and Social Research Council. Retrieved from http://eprints.brighton.ac.uk/11632/ 
Baye, M. R., Morgan, J., & Scholten, P. (2004). Price dispersion in the small and in the large: Evidence from an 
internet price comparison Site. Journal of Industrial Economics, 52(4), 463-496. 
Benware, C. A., & Deci, E .L. (1984). Quality of learning with an active versus passive motivational set. American 
Educational Research Journal, 21(4), 755–765. 
Bezos J., Kirby, J., & Stewart, T. A. (2007). The institutional YES. Harvard Business Review, 85(10), 74-82. 
Black, A. E., & Deci, E. L. (2000). The effects of instructors’ autonomy support and students’ autonomous motivation 
on learning organic chemistry: A self-determination theory perspective. Science Education, 84, 740–756. 
Cannon, R., & Newble, D. I. (2000). A handbook for teachers in universities and college: A guide to improving 
teaching methods. London: Kogan Page. 
Ciani, K. D., Summers, J.J., Easter, M. A., & Sheldon, K. M. (2008). Collaborative learning and positive experiences: 
Does letting students choose their own groups matter? Educational Psychology, 28(6), 627-641. 
Creswell, J. W. (2003). Research design: Qualitative, quantitative, and mixed method approaches. Thousand Oaks, 
CA: Sage Publications. 
Davenport, T. H. (2006). Competing on analytics. Harvard Business Review, 84(1), 98-107. 
Deci, E. L., & Ryan, R. M. (2012a). Motivation, personality, and development within embedded social contexts: An 
overview of self-determination theory. In R. M. Ryan (Ed.), The Oxford handbook of human motivation (pp. 
85–107). Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press 
Deci, E. L., & Ryan, R. M. (2012b). Self-determination theory. In P. A. M. Van Lange, A. W. Kruglanski, & E. T. 
Higgins (Eds.), Handbook of theories of social psychology (Vol. 1, pp. 416-437). Thousand Oaks, CA: 
Sage.Deci, E. L., & Ryan, R. M. (2000). The “what” and “why” of goal pursuits: Human needs and the self-
determination of behaviour. Psychological Inquiry, 11(4), 227–268. 
Deci, E. L., Vallerand, R. J., Pelletier, L. G., Ryan, R. M. (1991). Motivation and education: The self-determination 
perspective. Educational Psychologist, 26(3&4), 325-346. 
Dhar V., & Sundararajan, A. (2007). Information technologies in business: A blueprint for education and research. 
Information Systems Research, 18(2), 125-141. 
Economist. (2010). The worldwide war on baby girls: Technology, declining fertility and ancient prejudice are 
combining to unbalance societies. Retrieved from http://www.economist.com/node/15636231 
Economist. (2011). Special report: Personal technology: Beyond the PC. Retrieved from 
http://www.economist.com/blogs/babbage/2011/10/special-report-personal-technology 
DeCosta, J. W. (2011). Course modality choice and students’ self-selection of courses. Retrieved from 
http://ssrn.com/abstract=1797267 
Gefen, D., Ragowsky, A., McLean, E. R., Markus, M. L., Rivard, S., & Rossi, M. (2012). ICIS 2011 panel report: Are 
we on the wrong track and do MIS curricula need to be reengineered? Communications of the Association for 
Information Systems, 30. 
Goldmanis, M., Hortacsu, A., Syverson, C., & Emre, Ö. (2010). -commerce and the market structure of retail 
industries. The Economic Journal, 120(545), 651-682. 
Grint, K. (2005). The sociology of work: Introduction (3rd ed.). Cambridge, UK: Polity Press. 
Hammer, M., & Stanton, S. (1999). How process enterprises really work. Harvard Business Review, 77(6), 108-120. 
Hammer, M. (2007). The process audit. Harvard Business Review, 85(4), 111-123. 
Harper, S. R., & Quaye, S. J. (2008). Beyond sameness, with engagement and outcomes for all: An introduction. In 
S. R. Harper & S. J. Quaye (Eds.), Student engagement in higher education: Theoretical perspectives and 
practical approaches for diverse populations (pp. 1-16). New York, NY: Routledge. 
Iyer, B., & Davenport, T.H. (2008). Reverse engineering Google's innovation machine. Harvard Business Review, 
86(4), 58-68. 
  
176 
Volume 36 Article 10 
Iyer, B., & Henderson, J. C. (2010). Preparing for the future: Understanding the seven capabilities cloud computing. 
MIS Quarterly Executive, 9(2), 117-131. 
Jensen, R. (2007). The digital provide: Information (technology), market performance, and welfare in the South 
Indian fisheries sector. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 122(3), 879-924. 
Kahneman D. (2003). Maps of bounded rationality: Psychology for behavioural economics. The American Economic 
Review, 93(5), 1449-1475. 
Kapp, K. M. (2012). The gamification of learning and instruction: Game-based methods and strategies for training 
and education. San Francisco, CA: Wiley. 
Krapp, A. (1999). Interest, motivation and learning: An educational-psychological perspective. European Journal of 
Psychology of Education, 14(1), 23–40. 
Kuh, G. D., Kinzie, J., Buckley, J. A., Bridges, B. K., & Hayek, J. C. (2007). Piecing together the student success 
puzzle: Research, propositions, and recommendations. ASHE Higher Education Report, 32(5), 1-182. 
Malone, T. W., Yates, J., & Benjamin, R. I. (1989). The logic of electronic markets. Harvard Business Review, 67(3), 
166-172. 
McAfee, A. (2007). Those to whom IS matters most: Perspectives of IS faculty on curricula, and class materials. 
Information Systems Research, 18(2), 142-149. 
McAfee. A., & Brynjolfsson, E. (2008). Investing in IT that makes a competitive difference. Harvard Business 
Review, 86(7/8), 98-107. 
Maclellan, E. (2008). The significance of motivation in student-centred learning: A reflective case study. Teaching in 
Higher Education, 13(4), 411–421. 
Miles, M. B., & Huberman, A. M. (1994). Qualitative data analysis (2nd Ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. 
Niemiec, C. P., & Ryan, R. M. (2009). Autonomy, competence, and relatedness in the classroom: Applying self-
determination theory to educational practice. Theory and Research in Education, 7, 133–144. 
Orlikowski, W. J. (2000). Using technology and constituting structures: A practice lens for studying technology in 
organizations. Organization Science, 11(4), 404-442. 
Pintrich, P. (2004). A conceptual framework for assessing motivation and self-regulated learning in college students. 
Educational Psychology Review, 16(4), 385–407. 
Ryan, R .M., & Deci, E. L. (2000), Self-determination theory and the facilitation of intrinsic motivation, social 
development, and well-being. American Psychologist, 55(1), 68-78. 
Schunk, D. H., Meece, J. R., & Pintrich, P. R. (2013). Motivation in education: Theory, research, and applications (4th 
ed.). New York: Pearson   
Senor, D., & Singer, S. (2009). Start-up nation: The story of Israel's economic miracle. New York, NY: Twelve. 
Shapiro C., & Varian, H. (1999). Information rules: A strategic guide to the network economy. Boston, MA: Harvard 
Business School Press. 
Tadelis, S., & Williamson, O. (2012). Transaction cost economics. Retrieved from http://ssrn.com/abstract=2020176 
Thompson, A., Strickland A. J., & Gamble J. (2013). Crafting and executing strategy: Concepts and readings (19th 
ed.). New York: Mcgraw Hill. 
Vansteenkiste, M., Simons, J., Lens, W., Sheldon, K. M., Deci, E. L. (2004). Motivating learning, performance, and 
persistence: The synergistic effects of intrinsic goal contents and autonomy-supportive contexts. Journal of 
Personality and Social Psychology, 87(2), 246–260. 
von Hippel, E. (2006). Democratizing innovation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. 
Weill P., & Ross, J. W. (2009). IT savvy: What top executives must know to go from pain to gain. Boston, MA: 
Harvard Business Press. 
Whelan E., & Firth, D. (2012). Changing the introductory IS course to improve future enrolments: An Irish 
perspective. Journal of Information Systems Education, 23(4), 395-405. 
ABOUT THE AUTHORS 
Yossi Lichtenstein is a lecturer in Innovation Management at the Norwich Business School, University of East 
Anglia. Previously, he lectured at the College of Management, Israel and at University College Dublin. Yossi was a 
  
Volume 36 Article 10 
177 
staff member at IBM Research and at Hewlett-Packard Laboratories. He has published in MIS Quarterly and 
Communications of the ACM about economic aspects of software development and has co-authored several patents 
in the area of hardware design verification. 
Pamela Abbott is a lecturer and researcher in Information Systems at Brunel University London, UK with a specific 
interest in the area of global sourcing. Her initial focus was on nearshore and proximity models of global sourcing 
and more recently she has been investigating cross-cultural and knowledge processing issues related to the 
distributed collaborative work involved in offshoring. She has recently won the Journal of Strategic Information 
Systems best paper award in 2013 for her work on the “creolization” collaborative processes in the Chinese software 
and services outsourcing industry. This work emerged from a five-year international collaborative research project 
which she led with UK and China based researchers investigating the competitive strategies employed by Chinese 
IT service provider firms who operate in this highly competitive environment. Her other research interests include the 
suitability of specific locations for software and services outsourcing, and the role that distance plays in managing 
offshore working arrangements.  
Amit Rechavi is a lecturer in Innovation and Technology at the Engineering and Business Schools, Ruppin 
Academic Center, Israel. He is a member of the Interned Research Centre in the University of Haifa. Amit’s main 
research interest is social networks analysis; his other research interests include online entrepreneurship, mobile 
applications and project management. Previously Amit worked for Yahoo! and HP consulting. 
Copyright © 2014 by the Association for Information Systems. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part 
of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for 
profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and full citation on the first page. Copyright for 
components of this work owned by others than the Association for Information Systems must be honored. 
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, to republish, to post on servers, or to redistribute to lists 
requires prior specific permission and/or fee. Request permission to publish from: AIS Administrative Office, P.O. 
Box 2712 Atlanta, GA, 30301-2712, Attn: Reprints; or via e-mail from ais@aisnet.org. 
 
 
  
 
Volume 36 Article 10 
  
  ISSN: 1529-3181 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matti Rossi 
Aalto University 
AIS PUBLICATIONS COMMITTEE 
Virpi Tuunainen 
Vice President Publications  
Aalto University 
Matti Rossi 
Editor, CAIS  
Aalto University 
Suprateek Sarker 
Editor, JAIS 
University of Virginia 
Robert Zmud 
AIS Region 1 Representative 
University of Oklahoma 
Phillip Ein-Dor 
AIS Region 2 Representative 
Tel-Aviv University 
Bernard Tan 
AIS Region 3 Representative 
National University of Singapore 
CAIS ADVISORY BOARD 
Gordon Davis 
University of Minnesota 
Ken Kraemer 
University of California at 
Irvine 
M. Lynne Markus  
Bentley University 
Richard Mason 
Southern Methodist University 
Jay Nunamaker  
University of Arizona 
Henk Sol 
University of Groningen 
Ralph Sprague 
University of Hawaii 
Hugh J. Watson 
University of Georgia  
CAIS SENIOR EDITORS 
Steve Alter 
University of San Francisco 
Michel Avital 
Copenhagen Business School 
CAIS EDITORIAL BOARD 
Monica Adya 
Marquette University 
Dinesh Batra 
Florida International University 
Tina Blegind Jensen 
Copenhagen Business School 
Indranil Bose 
Indian Institute of Management 
Calcutta 
Tilo Böhmann  
University of Hamburg 
Thomas Case 
Georgia Southern University 
Tom Eikebrokk 
University of Agder 
Harvey Enns 
University of Dayton 
Andrew Gemino 
Simon Fraser University 
Matt Germonprez 
University of Nebraska at Omaha 
Mary Granger 
George Washington University 
Douglas Havelka 
Miami University 
Shuk Ying (Susanna) Ho 
Australian National University 
Jonny Holmström 
Umeå University 
Tom Horan 
Claremont Graduate University 
Damien Joseph 
Nanyang Technological University 
K.D. Joshi 
Washington State University 
Michel Kalika 
University of Paris Dauphine 
Karlheinz Kautz 
Copenhagen Business School 
Julie Kendall 
Rutgers University 
Nelson King 
American University of Beirut 
Hope Koch 
Baylor University 
Nancy Lankton 
Marshall University 
Claudia Loebbecke 
University of Cologne 
Paul Benjamin Lowry 
City University of Hong Kong 
Don McCubbrey  
University of Denver 
Fred Niederman 
St. Louis University 
Shan Ling Pan 
National University of Singapore 
Katia Passerini 
New Jersey Institute of 
Technology 
Jan Recker 
Queensland University of 
Technology 
Jackie Rees 
Purdue University 
Jeremy Rose  
Aarhus University 
Saonee Sarker  
Washington State University 
Raj Sharman 
State University of New York at 
Buffalo 
Thompson Teo 
National University of Singapore 
Heikki Topi  
Bentley University 
Arvind Tripathi  
University of Auckland Business 
School 
Frank Ulbrich 
Newcastle Business School 
Chelley Vician 
University of St. Thomas 
Padmal Vitharana 
Syracuse University 
Fons Wijnhoven 
University of Twente 
Vance Wilson 
Worcester Polytechnic Institute 
Yajiong Xue 
East Carolina University 
Ping Zhang 
Syracuse University 
DEPARTMENTS 
Debate 
Karlheinz Kautz 
History of Information Systems 
Editor: Ping Zhang 
Papers in French 
Editor: Michel Kalika 
Information Systems and Healthcare 
Editor: Vance Wilson 
Information Technology and Systems 
Editors: Dinesh Batra and Andrew Gemino 
ADMINISTRATIVE  
James P. Tinsley 
AIS Executive Director 
Meri Kuikka 
CAIS Managing Editor 
Aalto University 
Copyediting by  
Adam LeBrocq, AIS Copyeditor 
 
 
View publication stats
