Hackers Topology Matter Geography
Mapping the Dynamics of Repeated System Trespassing Events Networks 
Amit Rechavi 
The Center for 
Internet Research 
University of Haifa 
Haifa,  
Israel 
Tamar Berenblum 
The Institute of 
Criminology, 
The Hebrew 
University, 
Jerusalem 
David Maimon 
Department of 
Criminology and 
Criminal Justice, 
University of 
Maryland 
Ido Sivan Sevilla  
School of Public 
Policy & 
Government, The 
Hebrew University, 
Jerusalem 
Abstract— this study focuses on the spatial context of 
hacking to networks of Honey-pots. We investigate the 
relationship between topological positions and 
geographic positions of victimized computers and 
system trespassers. We've deployed research Honeypots 
on the computer networks of two academic institutions, 
collected information on successful brute force attacks 
(BFA) and system trespassing events (sessions), and 
used Social Network Analysis (SNA) techniques, to 
depict and understand the correlation between spatial 
attributes (IP addresses) and hacking networks’ 
topology. We mapped and explored hacking patterns 
and found that geography might set the behavior of the 
attackers as well as the topology of hacking networks. 
The contribution of this study stems from the fact that 
there are no prior studies of geographical influences on 
the topology of hacking networks and from the unique 
usage of SNA to investigate hacking activities. Looking 
ahead, our study can assist policymakers in forming 
effective policies in the field of cybercrime.  
Keywords: Hacking, Cybersecurity, Cyberspace Policies, 
Topology, SNA, Hot-spots 
INTRODUCTION 
William Gibson (1984) coined the term ‘cyberspace,’ 
and defined it as: “A consensual hallucination 
experienced daily by billions of legitimate operators, 
in every nation...A graphic representation of data 
abstracted from the banks of every computer in the 
human system…clusters and constellations of data.” 
“Cyberspace”, in this sense, is a ubiquitous fragile 
dimension, which has a distinct location, though a 
non-physical one. Therefore, it is a challenging 
environment for researchers to study (Graham, 2013). 
Cyberspace therefore is as a “place” with terms that 
express this conception: “Worlds, Domains, Sites, and 
Rooms (Barak and Suler, 2008). It is a place with 
social control and boundaries (Barzilai-Nahon and 
Neumann; 2005), and a place in which traffic is 
concentrated within localities, states, and regions. 
Moreover, its communication efficiency (Murnion 
and Healy 1998; Thelwall 2002) is depended on 
physical locations of data, hardware (routers, fiber 
optic cables, phone lines, etc.), and on the number of 
miles the data travels (Dodge and Zook 2009; 
Goldsmith and Wu 2006). The cultural characteristics 
that translate into different desires, expectations, 
online routines and behaviors change the Internet 
experience correspond to geographical boundaries 
(Goldsmith and Wu, 2006).  
Nonetheless, most of us capture the Internet as a 
technology that creates virtual worlds disengaged 
from a physical location. As Johnson and Post (1996) 
claimed, 'a new boundary, made up of screens and 
passwords that separate the virtual world from the 
"real world", emerges.' This is not solely a metaphor. 
This boundary defines the Cyberspace: a new world, 
with new rules, regulations, and laws (such as 
spamming, phishing, and hacking). In addition, 
Cyberspace has a number of unique characteristics: 
non-existence geographical boundaries, vague 
“privacy”, and extensive anonymity. These 
characteristics make cyberspace a perfect setting for 
hackers who seek to cross-geographical spaces and 
exceed identity restrictions.  
This study explores hacking in cyberspace. 
Specifically, it analyzes the influence of geographical 
locations of victimized and attacking computers on 
hacking-networks’ topology. Though hacking is not a 
new phenomenon (Furnell, 2002), it evolved in recent 
years and became more sophisticated and organized 
(Grabosky, 2014). Hacking, thus, carries enormous 
consequences on commercial, governmental (Rantala, 
2008), and individual computer users (Bossler and 
Holt, 2009).  
The focus of this study is cyber-attacks on computer 
networks. The data was collected using Honey-pots 
computers (A Honey-pot is a computer that enables 
the collection of information on real system 
trespassing events). We designed and deployed these 
target computers in the infrastructures of two 
universities – in Israel and China. 
Many complex social and natural systems are made of 
components and obscured web of connections among 
them. Identifying these components and links is 
2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
795
ASONAM '15, August 25-28, 2015, Paris, France 
Copyright is held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights 
licensed to ACM. 
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-3854-7/15/08 $15.00 
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2808797.2808873
 crucial to the understanding of the network, its 
structure and functionality. To build the attackers' 
network with the same technique of Tranos and 
Nijkamp (2013), we used the IP addresses of Honey-
pots, Brute Force Attacks (BFA) - successful attempts 
by hackers to guess login passwords to target 
computers for the first time, and System Trespassing 
events (i.e. Sessions) - successful computer intrusions 
based on credentials gained during BFAs. Both the 
attackers and attacked computer systems are nodes in 
a bi-partite network. We then employed SNA 
techniques to capture the dynamics of attack-
networks’ typologies. We analyzed the topological 
and statistical data collected from these target 
computers and explored the node-level (attacked and 
attackers attributes) and the network as a whole 
(patterns of hacking activities). 
In the broad, diverse, and rich spectrum of cyberspace 
attacks, we focus on one specific type of attacks – 
system trespassing events of SSH servers. We are not 
analyzing additional types of attacks such as web 
server attacks, e-mail phishing frauds, and database 
attacks (e.g. SQL injections). This is an important 
disclaimer for the validity of our research. Although 
we reach conclusions on the behavior of the network 
of cyber-attacks, our conclusions refer to hackers who 
only choose to use this type of attacking strategy. 
Although we focus on a specific attacking strategy, 
this strategy is a common method for gaining control 
over servers within organizations and throughout the 
cloud environment. Thus, understanding how hackers 
directly take over cyberspace resources and use them 
as their own, is a promising step forward in today's 
information security research.  
The paper comprises seven sections. Following this 
introduction, we review the related work regarding 
topology and the spatiality of the Internet. Then, we 
present our three hypotheses. Next, the research 
methodology and the research results are reported 
respectively. Conclusions regarding potential 
theoretical contributions and suggested future research 
are discussed in the last section 
REALED WORK 
a. The Role of Topology 
The way a network shapes its basic topology is a 
challenging issue in social network research in general 
(Morgan et al., 1997; Kossinets and Watts, 2006; 
Braha and Bar-Yam, 2006; Viswanath et al., 2009) 
and in the research of dynamic social networks in 
particular (Berger-Wolf and Saia, 2006; Hill and 
Braha 2010). Without understanding the processes 
that led the network to its current visible topology, the 
typology is meaningless (Berger-Wolf and Saia, 
2006). 
The coming section explores the factors that might 
shape the network’s topology and its relevance to 
geography.  
Network’s topology is the sum of many sub-
topologies, each one having its own purpose (Cross et 
al., 2001; Holme et al., 2004). It is a field of interests 
with many goals affecting its final structure (Lickel et 
al., 2006). This is the case in our current study, with 
many different Brute Force Attackers and system 
trespassing events that contain various mal-intentions.  
Several studies investigated the relations between 
topology and functionality of a network. Since 
topology evolves (or designed) to carry out efficiently 
the network’s mission, and since the network is 
influenced by its topology, understanding the 
topology is essential for understanding network’s 
function. 
The structure of a network contributes to a network’s 
dynamics (Watts, 1999) and to its ability to carry and 
deliver messages or viruses (Watts, 2004). For 
example, the physical topology of Internet servers is a 
scale-free power law, and it resembles the topology of 
the World Wide Web, which embodies the logical 
(Hub and Authorities) layer of the Internet (Faloutsos 
et al. 1999). Additionally, the small world topology of 
financial institutions in Canada serves its banks best 
(Baum et al., 2003). The decay of friendship 
probability with geographic distance in ‘LiveJournal’ 
helps members to navigate in its social structures 
(Liben-Nowell et al., 2005). Recently, using 
Messenger communications to investigate 
geographical properties of the social network, 
Leskovec and Horvitz (2014) found that geography 
provides an important cue in navigating between 
arbitrary source and target nodes and re-approved 
Liben-Nowell et al. (2005) conclusions.  
Another ubiquitous topological example of interests 
shaping the network topology is the “Structure 
Holes”. These individuals benefit from serving as 
intermediaries between non-connected vertices or 
groups. These groups have conflicting interests in the 
network and structured holes gained from their special 
position in the network (Granovetter, 1973; Burt 
1995; Kleinberg, 2006).  
Following these examples, we choose to investigate 
several centrality measurements of the attacking 
computers' networks. These measurements include 
Degree Centrality, Degree Centrality, Eigenvector 
Centrality and Hub, and Authority Centrality. We use 
these parameters to understand the structure of the 
attacking computers and to identify the main nodes in 
each network. We also use in-degree and out-degree 
parameters to correlate network’s topology with 
geographic distance. 
 
2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
796
b. The spatiality of the Internet
In 2001, Cairncross predicted that distance is dead, 
and yet, in recent years, several studies investigate the 
dependency of online social networks (OSN) topology 
in geography. The states’ growing involvement in 
Internet-regulation presents spatial aspect of the 
Internet. Goldsmith and Wu suggest (2006) that this 
involvement is due to a bottom-up demand. The 
citizens want the state to protect them while they use 
the Internet and it is not an attempt of the state to 
preserve its power. Moreover, geography matters even 
in the digital world for reasons such as: the necessity 
for social depth, the needed physical proximity for 
knowledge exchange, and the inherited nature of the 
OSN (Morgan, 2004).  Clusters of friends in OSN are 
often geographically close in the real world (Scellato 
et al., 2010) and physical distance has a significant 
impact on the intensity of the Internet infrastructure 
(Tranos and Nijkamp, 2013). People establish distant 
online connections with lesser probability than 
proximate ones (Lengyel et al., 2014). 
It seems that even in Twitter distance considerably 
constrains ties. Almost 40% of Twitter users connect 
users within the same regional cluster while ties 
longer than 5,000 km are underrepresented 
(Takhteyev et al., 2012). Yet, in one study, 
geographical distance was found to have smaller 
deflated power on the frequency of online friendships 
(Onnela et al., 2011). In our study, we will examine 
these conflicting claims in an attempt to conclude 
whether distance plays a role on hacking networks’ 
topologies.  
HYPOTHESES 
In the previous chapter we quoted few studies 
explaining why “distance is not dead” for Online 
Social Networks. Our study follows these studies’ 
footsteps and explores the relation between physical 
location and topology in the context of hacking 
networks.  
We claim that geography has an influence on the 
behavior of the attacker and as a result, geography has 
an influence on the topology of networks. Unlike any 
other network, in the attack network, one side (the 
Honey-pots i.e. the target computer) is passive and the 
only factor determining the topology of the network is 
the attackers’ behavior. Specifically, we hypothesize 
that:  
(1) H1: The geographic location of the Honey-pots 
(i.e. the target computer) has no effect on attack-
networks topology. We expect to find that the fact that 
Honey-pots are differently located (once in China and 
once in Israel) has no influence on the network's 
topology of attacking computers' locations. 
 (2) H2: The geographic location of the attacking 
computer influences its network topology. We expect 
to see a similar attackers’ behavior, meaning similar 
network attributes such as centrality-parameters, once 
the attacks are originated from the same countries 
(regardless of the Honey-pots’ location).  
 (3) H3: The geographic position of the attackers 
correlates with their topological positions in the 
network. We follow Onnela et al. (2011) and expect 
the geographical distances (in km) between the IP 
addresses used by hackers to correlate with the 
number of interactions between them. 
METHODOLOGY 
First, we will describe the research methodology and 
then the research set-up and plan. A description of the 
units of analysis and their properties is following. This 
study models the relations between hackers' IP 
addresses and Honey-pots (HP) as a directed network. 
A Honey-pot is a “security resource whose value lies 
in being probed, attacked or compromised” (Spitzner 
2003). 
The Honey-pot (HP) enables the collection of 
information on real system trespassing events. 
Consistent with past criminological (Maimon et al., 
2014) and technological studies (Salles-Loustau, et 
al., 2011), we deployed research HPs on the computer 
networks of Chinese and Israeli academic institutions. 
240 public IP addresses were used as HP in the 
Chinese network and 60 public IP addresses were 
employed for the deployment of HP on the Israeli 
network. Both computer networks had Linux Ubuntu 
10.04 as their operating system. The Chinese HPs 
were active for a period of 4 months (August 21, 
2012-December 21, 2012) and the Israeli HPs were 
active for a period of 3-month period (May 23, 2013-
August 31, 2013). 
In line with prior conceptualizations of password-
guessing attempts (Keith et al., 2007; SANS Institute 
2007), we operationalize a successful brute force 
attack as any event in which an unauthorized person 
or automatic tool successfully guesses the password to 
the system. Thus, we consider any target computer 
that was subject to a successful remote password-
guessing attempt a victim of a brute force attack. 
Similarly, we follow prior conceptualizations of 
system trespassing events (Berthier and Cukier 2009; 
Maimon et al, 2014), and operationalize a system 
trespassing event as any incident in which an 
unauthorized person accesses and logs in to a 
computer system based on a prior brute force attack.  
To infiltrate a HP, system trespassers had to scan the 
network, identify these computers and break into them 
through vulnerable entry points. In both networks 
(Chinese and Israeli) The HPs denied intruders’ login 
attempts until a random predefined threshold 
(between 150 and 200) was reached and then the 
2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
797
 target-computer was “successfully” infiltrated and 
allowed intruders to initiate a system trespassing 
event.  
Once infiltrating the HP, we allowed system 
trespassers to employ the target computers for a 
period of 30 days. At the end of a 30-day period, the 
HP blocked the system-trespasser’s access; we 
cleaned it and re-deployed it on the network. We use 
HP to explore who the attackers are, where do they 
come from, and what patterns of attacks they create in 
their behavior. We collected information on both 
successful brute force attacks, and system trespassing 
events, which are both successful break-in attempts 
into Honey-pots on these networks. 
We are fully aware of hackers’ tendency to mask their 
origins. Thus, an IP address of an attacker in our data 
is most probably not the real IP of the attacker's 
computer. Nevertheless and even though the IPs 
might not indicate the exact location of the hacker, it 
represents the most available IP address that the 
hacker can use in order to attack HPs, in either the 
Chinese or Israeli networks for both first (BFAs) and 
following (Sessions) attacks. 
Throughout the data collection period, 752 Chinese 
target computers experienced brute force attacks. 
These attacks originated in 347 unique IP addresses. 
However, not all system trespassers initiated a system 
trespassing event against our target computers: only 
301 Chinese target computers recorded a first system 
trespassing event. These incidents initiated from 140 
unique IP addresses. In contrast, due to the low 
number of IP addresses employed at the Israeli site, 
only 118 Israeli target computers experienced brute 
force attacks during the data collection period. These 
attacks originated in 115 unique IP addresses. 
Similarly, first system trespassing events initiated 
from 60 unique IP addresses against our 72 Israeli 
computers. 
Once we gathered the data, we built the Chinese and 
the Israeli HP’s networks; we deployed SNA 
techniques to explore their topological parameters and 
analyzed the results in the country level (in both the 
attackers and the HPs). In the coming Graphs we 
present the results. Each time there is s directed link 
from country A to country B, that link means that a 
BFA from country A was followed by a Session from 
country B. 
MAIN RESULTS 
1. The Geographic dimension with relation to the 
topology  
First, we analyzed the structure of the two hacking 
networks. The honey-pots, located in China and Israel 
separately are the base for the two networks. Both 
hacking networks are topologically alike without 
relation to the geographical location of the honey-
pots. Though the honey-pots were located in two 
different geographic places the topology of the 
attackers’ networks attacking each site is similar.  
The following graphs represent the Chinese and 
Israeli networks. In graph 1 and graph 2 we present 
the distribution of the attacks (BFA and Sessions) per 
country in both the Chinese and the Israeli networks. 
 
Graph 1: the distribution of BFA attempts per country in the 
Chinese and the Israeli networks. 
 
Graph 2: the distribution of Sessions attempts per country in the 
Chinese and the Israeli networks. 
The distribution pattern in China and Israel (graph 1 
and graph 2) is almost identical. Many countries are 
engaged in several attacks and only a few countries 
are massively attacking the Honey Pots. This might 
give a hint on the behavior of the hackers in both 
networks. Next and in order to understand the relation 
between geography and patterns of hacking activity, 
we investigated the hacking activity in the country 
level. 
Figures 1 and 2 map the main countries which origin 
hackers’ attacks on Chinese and Israeli Honey-pots 
networks. Since many countries contribute only few 
attacks, we filtered the data and figure 1 and figure 2 
present the countries that have the highest hacking 
activity. We only present the countries that their 
2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
798
 number of attacks is higher than the mean value of 
attacks in each network (4 in the Israeli network and 5 
in the Chinese network). Figure 3 and 4 in the 
appendix map all the relations between the attacking 
countries in the Chinese and the Israeli networks. 
 
Figure 1: BFA and Sessions relation in Israeli HP’s network (links 
>4) 
 
Figure 2: BFA and Sessions relation in Chinese HP’s network (links 
>5) 
Figures 1 and 2 make it very clear to notice that once 
a BFA happens (a node with a pointing arrow) the 
sessions (a node with an arrow pointing at it) which 
follow it, originate from all over the globes and not 
from a nearby country. This phenomenon exists in 
both Chinese and Israeli networks. Table 1 in the 
appendix details the list of countries in Chinese and 
Israeli HP’s network. For both Israeli and Chinese 
Honey-Pots, the frequency of sessions and BFAs is 
similar, BFAs are originated in three main nodes and 
sessions are coming from all over the globe. Thus, as 
predicted in H1, the geographic location of the 
Honey-pots does not have any effect on the topology 
of the hacking network.  
2. Resemblance of nodes and topologies’ parameters 
First, we explored the main topological identity of the 
main countries in the Chinese HP network and the 
Israeli HP network. We used the common network 
centrality parameters to analyze the main countries in 
each network and found them almost identical in both 
Honey-Pots' networks. In graphs 3 and 4 we present 
the distribution of the attacks (BFA and Sessions) 
originating from the top 10 countries. In both Chinese 
and Israeli networks, the “main players”, meaning the 
leading countries with the highest hacking activity 
level, are similar.  
The topological structure of the three leading nodes in 
figures 1 and 2 (China, Romania and the Unites 
States) looks quite the same in both networks.  
 
 
Graph 3: BFA and Sessions relation in Chinese HP’s network 
 
 
Graph 4: BFA and Sessions relation in Israeli HP’s network  
Next, we compared the two hacking networks with 
regard to five topology measures: Degree centrality, 
Hub centrality, Authority centrality, Eigenvector 
centrality and Betweenness centrality. The following 
graphs present our findings; 
In graph 5 we present the “Total Degree Centrality” 
which calculates the total number of times a country is 
engaged in hacking activity, either sending HP’s data 
to other countries or getting this data from other 
countries. The top five most active countries in this 
parameter are the same in the Chinese and Israeli HP 
networks. 
 
Graph 5: Top Total Degree Centrality in Chinese and Israeli HP 
Networks 
2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
799
 In graph 6 and 7 we present the top “Hub Centrality” 
and top “Authority Centrality” countries. A country is 
hub-central to the extent that it sends hacking data 
(many out-links) to countries that receive a lot of 
hacking data (many in-links). A country is Authority-
central to the extent that it gets a lot of hacking data 
(many in-links) from countries that have send a lot of 
data (many out-links). In the Chinese and the Israeli 
HP Networks, the top Hub and Authority countries are 
almost identical.  
 
Graph 6: Top Total Hub Centrality in Chinese and Israeli HP 
Networks 
 
 
Graph 7: Top Total Authority Centrality in Chinese and Israeli HP 
Networks 
In graph 8 we present the top “Eigenvector 
Centrality” countries. Eigenvector centrality is a 
measure of the influence of a country on the hacking 
network, based on its links to high-scoring countries. 
It is a high-quality measure for “major players” in the 
network, since it calculates the links to others that are 
themselves highly connected to each other. In the 
Chinese and the Israeli HP Networks, these top Hub 
nodes are almost identical. 
 
Graph 8: Top Total Eigenvector centrality in both Chinese and 
Israeli HP Networks 
In graph 9 we present the top “Betweenness 
Centrality” countries. Betweenness centrality is a 
measure of the influence of a country in the hacking 
network, based on its influence on the transfer of 
items through the network. It is a high-quality 
measure for “major players” in the network, since it 
calculates the number of the shortest paths from all 
countries to all other countries that pass through it. In 
the Chinese and the Israeli HP Networks, these top 
Hub nodes are almost identical. 
 
Graph 9: Top Betweenness centrality in both Chinese and Israeli HP 
Networks 
Overall, network analysis of the Chinese and the 
Israeli HP networks reveals that the node-sets in the 
two networks are similar (see table 1 in the appendix), 
the main players in the two networks are almost the 
same, and their topological measures are alike (see 
graphs 5-9 above). To conclude this part based on the 
overall topology and the proximity of the major 
players in the networks (Rechavi and Rafaeli, 2014), 
we find that the topologies of the networks, which 
describe the dynamics between BFA and Sessions, are 
extremely similar to each other.                                                                                                                                    
3. Physical Centrality and Topological Centrality 
2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
800
 In several studies (Scellato et al., 2010; Takhteyev et 
al., 2012; Tranos and Nijkamp, 2013; Lengyel et al., 
2014) the geographical distance had a meaning in 
people’s network. These studies found a correlation 
between the physical distance between two people in 
real life and their mutual relations in their social 
networks.  
Though geographical distance has power on topology, 
geography is not the only parameter that sets the 
behavior of attackers. We follow Onnela et al. (2011) 
and in our third hypothesis, we expected that the 
geographic positions of the attackers (distance 
between countries) correlate with their topological 
positions in the network. In graph 10 we present the 
ratio between geographical distance of the countries 
and the number of interactions between them.  
 
Graph 10: Chinese HP - Total Number of links and Distance 
between nodes   
As the graph shows, no correlation was found 
between the geographic distance between nodes and 
the number of links between them (Total Degree 
Centrality), in both the Chinese and the Israeli HP 
network. When we separately explore the “In-degree” 
and “Out-Degree” of the nodes we found the same 
results.  
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS 
Analyzing crime in the context of place is not new in 
criminological research. However, researchers paid 
little attention to the geography of attackers and 
victims in cyber sphere. This study attempts to 
address this gap in the literature and explore the 
relationship between countries that are involved in 
hacking activities. 
Our findings support the first hypothesis. The HPs 
computers were “passive victims” and the only 
information the hackers knew about the HPs was their 
geographic location – a university campus (in Israel or 
China). Since the attacks in the Chinese and Israeli 
campuses looked alike from a network topology 
perspective, we can deduce that the HPs’ location did 
not affect the behavior of the hackers. Hence, the 
geographic location of the passive target computer 
does not have an effect on the attacking dynamics. 
Our findings moderately support the second 
hypothesis. We found that besides similarity in the 
topology of the two hacking networks, the node-sets 
in the networks are also similar. Meaning not only 
topologically speaking the networks look alike but 
also the nodes, the hacking countries are almost the 
same in the Chinese and Israeli networks. On one 
hand the resemblance of the two networks’ topologies 
can explicit a general attack pattern and in this case, 
the location of the attacking has no meaning. On the 
other, the resemblance of the two networks’ 
topologies can happen because the attacking IPs in 
both cases come from the same countries. In that case, 
the topologies can explicit a specific attack pattern 
which is location-dependent. This means that the 
location of the attacker influences the network’s 
topology, as we suggested in the second hypothesis. 
Lastly, with regard to our third hypothesis, we find 
that there is no correlation between the topological 
and geographical centrality of nodes within the two 
networks. The strength of relations between two 
hacking countries in the network (the number of 
interactions between two countries) does not correlate 
with the physical distance between them (number of 
Km). This finding does not complement other 
researchers. A possible explanation for that is the 
special nature of hacking activities. Unlike social 
network relations, sharing hacking-data is based upon 
pure interests of both sides. It seems that in this 
manner “the world is flat” and the hackers share data 
across the globe without local or spatial 
characteristics. Digital data (and crime) knows no-
border and a clear relation between geographic place 
and cyber space is still vague.  
Our findings are preliminary and refer to specific 
victims (university network) and to hackers working 
only in a certain way (SSH protocol). Further study 
should explore other courses of action of hackers (for 
example - different protocols of hacking) and other 
networks (banks, telecommunications companies, 
etc.).  
The fact that our research is based on the last IP 
address from which the attack was carried out, and not 
on the actual geographical location of the attacker, is a 
testament to the challenge faced by law enforcement 
2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
801
agencies in identifying and punishing hackers. 
Drawing from Hot Spots policing theory (Braga, 
Papachristos and Hureau, 2012) and the crime 
concentration rule (Weisburd, Groff, and Yang, 
2012), we believe that mapping the 'hot countries' 
from which the hackers choose to launch their attacks, 
is critical. We are aware of the fact that a comparison 
between street segments and the virtual space is not 
obvious. It requires theoretical development and 
empirical testing that the network analysis 
methodology can potentially address.  
Overall, the full understanding of hacking activities 
includes the formation of hacking networks, their 
evolution, and their functionality. This requires the 
analysis of the dynamics and structure of hacking 
networks. The usage of network analysis 
methodologies is a promising step in this direction; it 
brings together topology and functionality and 
investigates them simultaneously. We call for more 
research in this promising area - the Cyber 
Criminology Network Analysis (CCNA).  
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
This research was conducted with the support of the 
Israeli Ministry of Science, Technology and Space 
(grant number 3-10888) and the college of behavioral 
and Social Science at the university of Maryland 
dean’s Research award. 
REFERENCES 
Barak, A., & Suler, J., (2008). Reflections on the 
Psychology and Social Science of Cyberspace. In: 
Barak, A., (Ed.). (2008). Psychological aspects of 
cyberspace: Theory, research, applications. NY: 
Cambridge University Press. 1-12. 
Barzilai-Nahon, K., & Neumann, S. (2005, January). 
Bounded in cyberspace: An empirical model of self-
regulation in virtual communities. In System 
Sciences, 2005. HICSS'05. Proceedings of the 38th 
Annual Hawaii International Conference on (pp. 
192b-192b). IEEE. 
Baum, J. A. C., Shipilov, A. V., & Rowley, T. J., 
(2003). Where do small worlds come from?. Industrial 
and Corporate Change, 12(4), 697.  
Berger-Wolf, T. Y., and Saia, J., (2006). A framework 
for analysis of dynamic social networks. Proceedings 
of the 12th ACM SIGKDD, 523-528.  
Berthier, R., & Cukier, M., (2009). An evaluation of 
connection characteristics for separating network 
attacks. International Journal of Security and 
Networks, 4(1), 110-124. 
Bossler, A.M., and Holt T.J., (2009). On-line 
activities, guardianship, and malware infection: An 
examination of routine activities theory. International 
Journal of Cyber Criminology 3, 400–420. 
Braga, A., Papachristos, A., & Hureau D., (2012), Hot 
spots policing effects on crime. Campbell Systematic 
Reviews 2012:8, 1-97. 
Braha, D., & Bar-Yam, Y., (2006). From centrality to  
temporary fame: Dynamic centrality in complex 
networks. Complexity, 12(2), 59-63.  
Burt, R. S., (1995). Structural holes: The social 
structure of competition. Cambridge MA: Harvard 
University Press. 
Cairncross, F., (2001). The death of distance: How the 
communications revolution is changing our lives. 
Boston MA: Harvard Business Press. 
Cross, R., Borgatti, S. P., & Parker, A., (2001). 
Beyond answers: Dimensions of the advice network. 
Social Networks, 23(3), 215-235.  
Dodge, M., & Zook, M., (2009). Internet Based 
Measurement. In: Kitchin, R., and Thrift, N., (Eds). 
The International Encyclopedia of Human Geography. 
Oxford: Elsevier. 
Faloutsos, M., Faloutsos, P., & Faloutsos, C. (1999, 
August). On power-law relationships of the internet 
topology. In ACM SIGCOMM computer 
communication review (Vol. 29, No. 4, pp. 251-262). 
ACM. 
Furnell, S., (2002). Cybercrime: Vandalizing the 
Information Society. Boston, MA: Addison-Wesley. 
Gibson, W., (1984). Neuromancer.  London: Harper 
Collins, 
Goldsmith, J., and Wu, T., (2006). Who Controls the 
Internet? Illusions of A Borderless World. Oxford 
University Press.  
Graham M. (2013). Ethereal Alternate Dimensions of 
Cyberspace or Grounded Augmented Realities. The 
Geographical Journal, 179 (2), 177–182. 
2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
802
Grabosky P. (2014). The Evolution of Cybercrime, 
2004-2014. RegNet Working Paper 58, Regulatory 
Institutions Network. 
Granovetter, M. S., (1973). The strength of weak ties. 
American Journal of Sociology, 78(6), 1360.  
Hill, S. A., & Braha, D., (2010). Dynamic model of 
time-dependent complex networks. Physical Review 
E, 82(4), 046105. 
Holme, P., Edling, C. R., & Liljeros, F., (2004). 
Structure and time evolution of an internet dating 
community. Social Networks, 26(2), 155-174.  
Johnson, D. R., & Post, D., (1996). Law and borders: 
The rise of law in cyberspace. Stanford Law Review, 
1367-1402. 
Keith, M., Shao, B., & Steinbart, P. J., (2007). The 
usability of passphrases for authentication: An 
empirical field study. International journal of human-
computer studies, 65(1), 17-28. 
Kleinberg, J. (2006, August). Social networks, 
incentives, and search. In Proceedings of the 29th 
annual international ACM SIGIR conference on 
Research and development in information retrieval 
(pp. 210-211). ACM. 
Kossinets, G., & Watts, D. J. (2006). Empirical 
analysis of an evolving social network. Science, 
311(5757), 88-90. 
Lengyel B., Attila V., Ságvári, B.  Jakobi Á., & 
Kertész, J., (2014) Geographies of an online social 
network”. arxiv.org/pdf/1503.07757 
Leskovec, J., & Horvitz, E., (2014). Geospatial 
Structure of a Planetary-Scale Social Network. 
Computational Social Systems, IEEE Transactions on, 
1(3), 156-163. 
Liben-Nowell, D., Novak, J., Kumar, R., Raghavan, 
P., & Tomkins, A., (2005). Geographic routing in 
social networks. Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 
102(33), 11623-11628. 
Lickel, B., Rutchick, A. M., Hamilton, D. L., & 
Sherman, S. J., (2006). Intuitive theories of group 
types and relational principles. Journal of 
Experimental Social Psychology, 42(1), 28-39.  
Maimon, D., Alper, M., Sobesto, B., & Cukier, M., 
(2014). Restrictive deterrent effects of a warning 
banner in an attacked computer system. Criminology, 
52(1), 33-59. 
Morgan, D. L., Neal, M. B., & Carder, P., (1997). The 
stability of core and peripheral networks over time* 1. 
Social Networks, 19(1), 9-25.  
Morgan, K., (2004). The exaggerated death of 
geography: learning, proximity and territorial 
innovation systems. Journal of economic geography, 
4(1), 3-21. 
Murnion S. & Healy, R.G., (1998). Modeling 
Distance Decay Effects in Web Server Information 
Flows. Geographical Analysis 30: 285-302. 
Onnela, J. P., Arbesman, S., González, M. C., 
Barabási, A. L., & Christakis, N. A. (2011). 
Geographic constraints on social network groups. 
PLoS one, 6(4), e16939. 
Rantala, R., (2005). Bureau of Justice Statistics 
Special Report: Cybercrime against Businesses, 2005. 
Washington, DC: Bureau of Justice Statistics. 
Rechavi, A., & Rafaeli, S., (2014). Active players in a 
network tell the story: Parsimony in modeling huge 
networks. First Monday, 19(8). 
Salles-Loustau, G., Berthier, R., Collange, E., 
Sobesto, B., & Cukier, M., (2011). Characterizing 
attackers and attacks: An empirical study. In 
Dependable Computing (PRDC), 2011 IEEE 17th 
Pacific Rim International Symposium on IEEE. 174 – 
183. 
SANS Institute. (2007). SANS Top-20 2007 Security 
Risks (2007 Annual Update). Available at: 
http://www.sans.org/ top20/ 2007/ 
Scellato, S., Mascolo, C., Musolesi, M., & Latora, V., 
(2010). Distance matters: geo-social metrics for online 
social networks. In Proceedings of the 3rd conference 
on Online social networks. 8-8. 
Spitzner, L. (2003). The honeynet project: Trapping 
the hackers. IEEE Security & Privacy, 1(2), 15-23. 
Takhteyev, Y., Gruzd, A., & Wellman, B. (2012). 
Geography of Twitter networks. Social networks, 
34(1), 73-81. 
Tranos, E., & Nijkamp, P., (2013). The Death of 
Distance Revisited: Cyber‐Place, Physical and 
2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
803
Relational Proximities. Journal of Regional Science, 
53(5), 855-873. 
Thelwall, M., (2002). Evidence for the Existence of 
Geographic Trends in University Web Site 
Interlinking. Journal of Documentation 58: 563-574. 
Viswanath, B., Mislove, A., Cha, M., & Gummadi, K. 
P., (2009). On the evolution of user interaction in 
facebook. Proceedings of the 2nd ACM Workshop on 
Online Social Networks, 37-42.  
Watts, D. J., (1999). Networks, dynamics, and the 
small-world phenomenon 1. American Journal of 
Sociology, 105(2), 493-527.  
Watts, D. J., (2004). The “new” science of networks. 
Annual review of sociology. 30: 243-270. 
Weisburd, D. L., Groff, E. R., & Yang, S. M., 
(2012). The criminology of place: Street segments and 
our understanding of the crime problem. Oxford 
University Press. 
APPENDIXES 
Figure 3: All BFA and Sessions relation in Israeli HP’s network
Figure 4: All BFA and Sessions relation in Chinese HP’s network  
Common countries in the 
Chinese and Israeli’s 
Networks 
Unique Countries in the 
Chinese Network 
Unique Countries in the 
Israeli Network 
Anonymous Proxy, 
Argentina, Armenia, 
Australia, Bangladesh, 
Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, 
Chile, China, Colombia, 
Finland, France, 
Germany, Hong Kong, 
India, Indonesia, Italy, 
Kazakhstan, Korea, 
Republic of, Mexico, 
Netherlands, NULL, 
Panama, Philippines, 
Romania, Russian 
Federation, South Africa, 
Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, 
Turkey, Ukraine, United 
Kingdom, United States 
Albania, Czech Republic, 
Ecuador, Hungary, 
Iceland, Israel, Japan, 
Lebanon, Macedonia, 
Malaysia, Moldova, 
Republic of, Mongolia, 
Pakistan, Peru, Poland, 
Singapore, Slovenia, Sri 
Lanka, Switzerland, 
Thailand, Vietnam, 
Zimbabwe 
Costa Rica, Dominican 
Republic, Guatemala, Iran, 
Morocco,  Saudi Arabia, 
Serbia, Slovakia, Venezuela 
Table 1: Detailed list of countries in Chinese and Israeli HP’s 
network 
2015 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
804
