Knowledge and Social Networks in Yahoo! Answers
Amit Rechavi 
Sagy Center for Internet Research 
Graduate School of Management, Univ. of Haifa 
Haifa, Israel 
Amit.rechavi@gmail.com 
Sheizaf Rafaeli 
Sagy Center for Internet Research 
Graduate School of Management, Univ. of Haifa 
Haifa, Israel 
Sheizaf@rafaeli.net 
Abstract 
This study defines and explores relations between 
knowledge-seeking and social relationship networks, 
using data from a popular Q&A social network site. 
Our theoretical framework draws on Motivation, 
Common-goods, and Social capital theories to 
generate an understanding of the interrelationship of 
the two types of networks. A dataset consisting of 19 
months of activity on Q&A Yahoo! Answers provides 
the basis for answering the following questions: Does 
a reciprocal relationship exist between the two 
networks? Is there a positive correlation in either size 
or growth between the two? Who are their members 
and actual participants? How does the social capital 
created by the social activities influence the asker’s 
satisfaction? Finally, can the growth of one network 
come at the expense of the other?  
 
Findings suggest a positive correlation between the 
knowledge-seeking network and the social network; 
Social capital does contribute to askers’ satisfaction 
and furthermore, under certain conditions, one 
network might grow at the expense of the other. 
Theoretical and practical implications for the mutual 
dependency of social ties and informational provision 
are discussed. 
 
1. Introduction  
 
Social Q&A is a Web-based information-seeking 
service in which questions are asked and answers given 
by the users themselves. The service offers (1) a 
method for presenting a request for needed 
information; (2) a place where others can respond to 
that person’s information need; and (3) a community 
built around such service and based on active 
participation [38]. 
 
Yahoo! Answers is the world’s largest question-answer 
system. Its declared mission is to be “the one place 
where the world shares what they know to help each 
other out.” Yahoo! Answers is a community site: 
anybody can ask and answer [14]. The heterogeneous 
interactions, which include actively participating in 
regulating the system, turn Yahoo! Answers into a 
social network [3, 33]. Yahoo! Answers also 
encourages with its rewards system such acts as voting 
for the answers offered, selection of “best Answer” 
(BA), citing interesting questions, and even reporting 
abusive behavior. Users raise discussion topics to 
garner others’ opinions or simply for fun [47]. 
 
Unlike discussion groups where users can write on a 
specific subject and relate to each other’s words, in 
Yahoo! Answer, one can only ask a question or answer 
it. There is no conversation support mechanism.  
Hence two networks co-exist in Yahoo! Answers; a 
knowledge-seeking network and a social activities 
network. The knowledge seeking network consists of 
both conversational questions which are asked for the 
purpose of stimulating discussion and informational 
questions which are asked with the intent of obtaining 
information [13].  
 
We define the social network to consist of all activities 
not related to actually asking or answering a question. 
This includes five parameters: (1) the number of stars 
that a question rates (“interesting”) and the number of 
participants who star a question; (2) the number of 
“thumbs up” and “thumbs down” to answers, their 
ratio, and the number of people who participated in the 
evaluation; (3) the number of comments to a closed 
question and the number of participants who 
commented; (4) the number of votes for a “Best 
Answer” (BA) and the number of participants who 
voted in this category; and (5) the number of “stars” 
awarded to the BA.   
 
Though Q&A sites are defined as communities [26, 33, 
46] where the participants’ activity creates a social 
network, not much was written on the two co-existing 
networks that compose Q&A sites; the social network 
and the knowledge-seeking network. 
 
This study explores these networks and addresses the 
following questions: What is the relationship between a 
knowledge-seeking network and a social network? Do 
reciprocal relations exist between the two network 
types? Is there a positive correlation in growth between 
the two? Who are their respective members, and who 
are their actual participants? How does the social 
capital created by the social activities influence the 
asker’s satisfaction? And under what conditions might 
the growth of one network come at the expense of the 
other? 
 
2. Literature Review 
 
2.1. Question-and-Answer Sites as Social 
Networks 
Online question-and-answer services, are variously 
known as Social Q&A and Social Reference [35], 
Community Question Answering (CQA) [33] (Co-
training Community Question Answering) [26], and 
QABB (Questions and Answers Bulletin Board) [29].   
 
Q&A sites are online communities, where anyone 
could ask and answer and share knowledge, and all the 
data are public and immediately searchable [27]. 
Participants’ activity, whether for  knowledge sharing 
or socializing, create ties to other users through asking 
and answering questions and establish a social network 
even if not intended [33, 36, 37, 44].  
 
Though much of the content reflects unsubstantiated 
opinions, questioners prefer to obtain personalized 
answers to their individual queries [4] and having the 
opportunity to connect socially with others is a good 
enough reason to prefer these sites over a search engine 
[28]. 
 
In recent years, several researchers indentified Yahoo! 
Answers as “an example of a community site organized 
around questions and answers” [4] and as “an online 
community” [5] especially since in Yahoo! Answers 
anybody could ask and answer questions [3, 14] and 
the site fully meets Golbeck's accessibility, relationship 
and a support criteria for a web-based social network 
[11]. 
 
All these studies support our main motivation to 
distinguish between the knowledge-seeking network 
and the social network in Yahoo! Answers, to explore 
the activities in both networks and to understand the 
correlation between them. 
 
2.2. Roles in Q&A Sites  
Turner et al. [43] and Wellman [44] identify five 
archetypes:”Answer people”, “Questioner”, “Trolls”, 
“Spammers / Binary Posters” and “Flame Warrior 
/Conversationalist”, participates in online 
communities. This section will focus on the answerer 
who volunteers to respond to questions in Newsgroups 
and QABB and will present her motivations and 
importance to the Q&A sites. 
 
Participation in discussion groups and Q&A sites is 
paradoxical. The content is available to all members, 
but since no single individual is required to contribute 
to the site’s content; indeed, the "rational consumer" 
might be a “lurker,” consuming the medium without 
making contributions. Watching others talk and 
becoming familiar with a community’s content makes 
lurkers feel they belong to that community. Another 
frequent explanation of lurking is free-riding, defined 
as using a common good without contributing to it 
[40]. Yet, if no one contributed, there would soon be 
no medium to consume, and this is the dilemma of so-
called "public goods" [32]. 
 
Most on-line communities exhibit a “90-9-1 rule”: 90% 
of the users are “lurkers” who never contribute, 9% 
contribute a little, and 1% account for almost all the 
action [8, 40]. Only 4% of members in open-source 
development communities’ account for 50% of 
answers on a user-to-user help site [24] and in Naver, 
only 1% of the answerers contributed between 22% 
and 52% of the answers in the different categories [30]. 
 
Askers can also be answerers; while this is rare [14], it 
does occur where users chat informally [1]. In two 
leading Q&A sites Yahoo! Answers and Naver only 5% 
of all users were found to act as both asker and 
answerer [6, 30].  
 
Regarding the nature of the participation in 
newsgroups, 50% of social, hobby, and work mailing 
lists had no traffic over a period of four straight months 
[9]. In Q&A sites most answerers prefer to act in a 
single (topic) category [10], ask one question only [47] 
and tend over the years to quote or relate to the 
answers of others and not to answer themselves [26]. 
 
The low participation rates in Yahoo! Answers can be 
explained by (1) “social loafing” [25], meaning 
individual contributions to a group effort are reduced 
when that effort is not unique, or as the size of the 
group grows; (2) relevant questions that were non-
observed, which the user cannot detect [12] or (3) a 
lack of motivation to solve someone else's problems 
[12]. 
 
Our study uses the knowledge-seeking network’s roles 
such as asker and answerer and the social network’s  
roles to explore the correlation between the two 
networks in Yahoo! Answers. 
 
 
2.3. Motivations in Q&A Sites  
Many studies explore the motivation for participate in 
Q&A activities and related them to several fields: 
(a) Professional skills such as gaining reputation and 
structural connection to the network [45] learning 
and reviewing material [30] and using relevant 
experience [29]. 
(b) Interpersonal connectivity such as helping others 
[30], expressing appreciation or affiliation, 
providing or receiving social support [47] and 
commitment due to the nature of relationship [29]. 
(c) Belonging to a community such as participating in 
the social network as a hobby [30], building a 
sense of community [45], connecting socially and 
experiencing the social capital [29].  
(d) Asker’s characteristics and personality such as 
altruism, obligation, humor and ego [29] 
(e) Community mechanism such as; having answers 
selected as “best answers” or commented on [8, 
18] and having the opportunity to obtain better, 
more numerous, and longer responses [48]. 
Usability had little role in explaining user 
motivation [25]. 
 
Theories such as Uses and Gratifications (U&G), 
where users actively seek particular media with the 
goal of gratifying an existing need, were also suggested 
as explanations for users’ motivations to contribute to 
online communities [25]. Surprisingly enough Wasko 
and Faraj [45] found that expectations of reciprocity or 
high levels of commitment to the network are not 
significant in explaining motivations for sharing. 
Raban and Harper divided the answerer's motivations 
into internal (intrinsic) and external (extrinsic) groups, 
mentioning Yahoo! Answers as a Q&A which “uses 
extrinsic motivations heavily to invite user 
contributions and increase the quality of answers" 
[32]. 
The explanations for the user’s motivation to 
contribute and share knowledge are varying. No matter 
what is the explanation, the contributions’ outcome is 
clear and crucial for the existence of online 
communities and Q&A sites. Our study explores some 
of the motivations (social capital and community 
mechanism) and their correlations with the asker’s 
satisfaction in Yahoo! Answers.  
 
2.4. Quality and Satisfaction 
Satisfying a user’s information need was the goal of 
Q&A systems [5]. People turn to their social networks 
rather than use search engines in order to satisfy their 
information needs [29]. However, QABB suffer from 
diverse answer quality with a low percentage (17% - 
42%) of correct answers [2, 41]. 
 
The asker satisfaction could be derived from both 
textual features and non-textual features. Whereas 
textual features such as accuracy, completeness, and 
relevance are used to measure the relevance of an 
answer to the question, the non-textual features help 
estimate the quality of the answer [19].  Several studies 
found signaling value in non-textual features of 
answers such as: 
(a) Previous experience and interaction with the tool 
[26] 
(b) Features such as; answer length, ranking (thumbs 
up minus thumbs down) and the answerer's 
reputation [3, 5].  
(c) Response time; “In asynchronous CMC, a quick 
response is one of the only non-verbal tools that 
can be used to signal immediacy, care, and 
presence” [21].  
 
Our study does not use content analysis and uses only 
the non-textual features such as ranking and response 
time to explore the community’s estimations, the social 
capital and their correlations to the asker’s satisfaction 
in Yahoo! Answers. 
 
2.5. Yahoo! Answers 
Launched on July 5, 2005, Yahoo! Answers enables 
participants to ask and answer questions on any topic. 
It provides more than 20 million answers per month. In 
its early years, Yahoo! Answers handled 96% of all 
answering and questioning activity on the Internet and 
this platform was judged to be not only the largest 
Q&A site but also the one that delivered the best 
answers [6]. 
 
Yahoo! Answers serves many needs - answering 
questions, receiving support, and requesting everyday 
advice [1] - all of which can be divided into 
Informational Questions and Conversational 
Discussions [13]. It was found that about 40% of the 
Yahoo! Answers questions were opinion-type 
questions, asking for an opinion, evaluation, or point of 
view [22]. 
 
Along with its rapid growth in 2006 and 2007, the 
quality of Yahoo! Answers responses to factual 
questions went into decline. Its expertise depth and 
question content were deemed to be subjective-
oriented, the information was noisy, ungrammatical, 
vague, and poorly stated [26] and its content was found 
to be barely at the high school level [1]. Nevertheless, 
Yahoo! answers provided good answers to two specific 
question types: “Complicated Answer” and "Opinions" 
[28] and in categories where the answerers were active 
on specific topics and not supplying answers in 
multiple categories [1]. 
 
Yahoo! Answers has 24 top categories and more than 
1,600 sub-categories in total. Some are huge with more 
than 100,000 active users per month and some have 
only a few active users per month. These differences 
are critical to our activity level analysis and the size 
analysis of Yahoo! Answers. 
 
Yahoo! Answers process is quite straightforward. An 
asker puts a question to Yahoo! Answers by selecting a 
category and entering the question subject (title) and, 
optionally, giving details (description). At this point 
other users can act in one of two ways: (a) Knowledge 
driven acts - answer the question; (b) Social driven acts 
- tagging other users’ answers (Thumbs up or Thumbs 
down) and questions (e.g., awarding stars for quality) 
or, later, commenting on the question and/or voting for 
the Best Answer.  
 
Each question has a lifecycle, starting in an “open” 
state in which answers are received. If the asker is 
satisfied with any of the answers, she can choose it as a 
best answer and provide feedback, such as assigning 
stars to the best answer or offering textual feedback. If 
the asker did not indicate a best answer within four or 
eight days (extended time), the best answer is chosen 
by the community in a voting process. Once a best 
answer is chosen, the question is “resolved” although 
comments can be added to both closed and resolved 
questions. 
 
In our view, the group’s social activities in Yahoo! 
Answers—namely, starring questions, commenting on 
and rating answers, and voting for the “Best 
Answer”—are all part of the social capital that is 
created by the Yahoo! Answers’ mechanism. This 
social capital comprises “networked ties of goodwill, 
mutual support, shared language, shared norms, social 
trust, and a sense of mutual obligation that people can 
derive value from” [17]. In the following hypotheses, 
we will explore the effect of the social capital on the 
asker’s satisfaction. 
 
 
3. Hypotheses 
 
Users may continue to participate in a site for different 
reasons than those that led them to the site [25]. Asking 
or answering questions might lead to meeting new 
interesting people and vice versa, evaluating questions 
and answers might lead to participating in asking or 
answering. This possible diffusion leads us to explore 
the relationship between the knowledge-seeking 
network and the social network in Yahoo! Answers 
(H1).  
Since the social capital was found to be important in 
predicting contribution to the site [25] and was found 
to be influential on the user satisfaction [17, 29, 39, 44] 
we will explore the correlation between the social 
capital and two parameters: the community’s 
contribution and the asker’s satisfaction (H2).  
Finally we will explore the correlation between “pure” 
social activities (people who engage in social activities 
to the exclusion of other activities on the system) and 
two parameters: (a) the asker’s satisfaction and (b) the 
correlation between “pure” social activity and the level 
of overall-activities in the network (H3). 
 
H1: The size and growth of both knowledge- seeking 
networks and social networks are positively correlated 
across categories. 
H1.1: A high volume of knowledge activity will 
correspond to a high volume of social activity (such as 
Thumbs up/ down, starring questions, voting and 
commenting) across categories.  
H1.2: Across categories, a positive growth correlation 
exists between the two networks. Categories 
experiencing a growth in knowledge- seeking will 
experience growth in social network, as well.  
 
On one hand, the knowledge-seeking network causes 
people to interact and creates social activity. On the 
other hand, social activity exposes random users to 
Yahoo! Answers content and encourages them to 
participate in asking and even answering questions. 
Since no definite causal direction can be established 
between the knowledge-seeking network and the social 
network, we explored the following correlations 
between the two systems: 
 
H2: A correlation will be found between the social 
network’s parameters which create a social capital 
and the asker’s evaluation of the quality of the 
answers.  
H2.1 The social network’s positive evaluations 
(Thumbs up, Question stars) will be positively 
correlated with the asker’s satisfaction parameters 
(Best Answer stars). 
H2.2: The social networks’ negative evaluations 
(Thumbs down) will be positively correlated with poor 
satisfaction parameters of the knowledge network 
(asker’s Best Answer’s stars). 
H2.3: The size of the social network (number of users’ 
starring and evaluating) will be positively correlated 
with the correlation between the group’s evaluations 
and asker satisfaction. 
Categories with a positive community atmosphere 
(many “Thumbs up” answers and “interesting” stars to 
questions) will create social capital. This situation, in 
return, will increase the contribution to the site [25], as 
it will influence the quality of the answers and will 
increase the user satisfaction [25] in terms of a higher 
average number of “stars” given to the Best Answer. 
Categories with a negative community atmosphere 
(many “Thumbs down” to answers) will create poor 
social capital. This, in turn, will influence the quality 
of the answers and create lower asker satisfaction rates. 
Categories with a larger community will exhibit more 
accurate “Wisdom of Crowds,” causing higher 
correlations between the group’s evaluation and the 
asker’s evaluation in the different categories.   
 
H3: in categories in which the social activity is carried 
out by users who do not participate in the knowledge-
seeking activity, we expect to find: 
H3.1 A negative correlation between the volume of the 
“pure” social activity and the size of the network. 
H3.2 A negative correlation between the volume of the 
“pure” social activity and the number of answers per 
question.  
H3.3 A negative correlation between the volume of the 
“pure” social activity and the asker’s satisfaction rates 
regarding the “Best Answer.”  
 
Yahoo! Answers was established as a Q&A site, and as 
such the user’s main reason for entering the site is to 
ask and answer questions. Nevertheless, besides 
lurkers, who are an intrinsic part of question answering 
sites [32], there are people who use this platform solely 
as a social network, meaning that their activity 
involves commenting, voting, and rating, but not 
offering questions or answers.  
 
The effect of this phenomenon on questioning and 
answering is now explored. On the one hand, H1 
assumes that the knowledge-seeking network and the 
social network go hand in hand. On the other hand, it 
can be assumed that since people’s resources are 
limited, a successful social network might emerge at 
the expense of the knowledge- seeking network. We 
argue that in categories where the share of “pure” 
social activity is high, the size of the overall network 
and the total number of answers per question will be 
small, and the rates of asker satisfaction with the 
answers obtained will be low. 
 
4. Research Methodology 
 
For an initial analysis of the size and growth of the 
knowledge-seeking network and the social network, we 
used data that had been collected from 19 months of 
Yahoo! Answers activity. The sequential data was 
divided into distinct phases. This kind of division was 
used previously [16, 23, 42, 44]. 
 
During this time period, approximately 20 million 
knowledge-seeking activities were executed each 
month, the number of users ranging between 6.4 
million and 9.2 million each month. All knowledge-
seeking activities were explored as were four types of 
social activities: (1) starring a question as interesting, 
(2) giving thumbs up or thumbs down to a question, (3) 
commenting on a question, and (4) voting for the “Best 
Answer.”  
 
The hypothesized relationships were estimated, using 
more than 1600 sub-categories in Yahoo! Answers. In 
most cases, the direction of influence between the 
knowledge-seeking network and the social network is 
uncertain; therefore, correlation analysis was employed 
as the main analysis tool. The explanatory power of the 
correlations was evaluated by looking at the Pearson 
Correlation value; unless otherwise stated, the 
significance was (2-tailed) p <0.001.  
 
Data were collected from the Yahoo! Answers servers, 
using Yahoo!’s administrative tools for almost a year. 
The data reported here consist of all the relevant 
activities between January 1, 2009, and August 31, 
2010, excluding July 2009, data for which were 
missing. 
 
5. Main results 
 
Since Yahoo! Answers categories vary in size, we 
analyzed the data accordingly. Three sets of results are 
presented for each correlation check: one for the whole 
Yahoo! Answers network (1622 sub-categories, 100% 
of the categories) (SET A); one for the biggest 
categories (369 categories, 22% of the categories), 
each with a total number of users of more than 20,000 
for the 19-month activity time period (SET B); and one 
for the top categories (310 categories, 18% of the 
categories), each with more than 40,000 users over the 
19-month time period (SET C).  
 
The results for the size correlation and the growth 
correlation between the two networks are presented 
first; these are given in terms of the number of nodes 
and the volume of interactions. Next are the results for 
the correlation between a group’s social capital and the 
asker’s satisfaction with the answers. This is followed 
by the results for the correlation between the “pure” 
social network activities and the knowledge-network 
parameters.  
 
H1.1 Results - A high correlation (0.57, 0.64, 0.67) 
was found between the average number of members 
per Q&A activity in the knowledge- seeking network 
(askers and answerers) and the average number of 
members per Q&A activity in the pure social network 
(number of nodes) for Sets A, B and C. A very high 
correlation (0.88) was found between the knowledge-
seeking (questions and answers) activity and the social 
activity (number of interactions) for Sets A, B and C.  
 
H1.2 Results - A very high correlation was found 
between the growth in knowledge-seeking activity (in 
nodes) and the growth in number of people who give 
stars (0.57, 0.71, 0.79) and evaluations (0.9, 1, 0.9) for 
Sets A, B and C.  
 
A very high correlation was found between the growth 
in knowledge-seeking activity (in nodes) and the 
growth in questions’ stars (0.32, 0.64, 0.87), comments 
(0, 0.7, 0.79) and Thumbs up (0.84, 1, 0.92) for Sets A, 
B and C.  
 
H2.1 Results - The data show a moderate positive 
correlation (0.28, 0.34, and 0.36, respectively, in 
compatibility) between the group’s evaluation of the 
quality of the question (Question stars) and the asker’s 
satisfaction with the “Best Answer” chosen (Stars) for 
Sets A, B and C. The data support a moderate positive 
correlation (0.32) between the group’s evaluation of 
the quality of the answer (Thumbs up) and the asker’s 
satisfaction with the “Best Answer” chosen (Stars) and 
support a for Sets B and C. The data do not support a 
correlation for Set A (low significance). 
 
H2.2: Results - The data indicate a moderate negative 
correlation (-0.32) between the group’s negative 
evaluation of the quality of the answers (Thumbs down 
per all Thumbs) and the asker’s satisfaction with the 
“Best Answer” chosen (Stars) for Sets B and C. The 
data do not support a correlation for Set A (low 
significance). 
 
H2.3: Results - A strong positive correlation (0.84) 
was found between the size of the group (starring 
questions and evaluating answers) and the correlation 
between the group evaluations and asker satisfaction 
for Sets A, B and C. 
 
H3.1 Results - The data show a weak negative 
correlation (-0.2) between the share of “pure” (non-
informational) social activity and the size of the 
knowledge-seeking activity for Sets B and C. The data 
do not support a correlation for Set A (low 
significance). 
 
H3.2 Results - The data indicate a weak negative 
correlation (-0.28) between the share of “pure” (non-
informational) social activity and the average number 
of answers per question for Sets B and C. The data do 
not support a correlation for Set A (low significance). 
 
H3.3 Results - The data show a weak negative 
correlation (-0.27) between the volume of “pure” (non-
informational) social activity and the average number 
of Best Answer stars for Sets B and C. The data do not 
support a correlation for Set A (low significance). 
 
The findings support almost all of the hypotheses for 
sets B and C. These sets focus on the biggest categories 
where many users are involved in the knowledge - 
seeking and in the social activities. The data support 
only H1 for Set A (whole 1610 categories). We assume 
that since Set A consists of hundreds of small 
categories with a few users and a minimum level of 
activity, the data is noisy and can’t generate clear and 
significant statistical insights. 
 
6. Discussion  
 
More people who seek information might generate 
more social interactions. When people interact socially 
on Yahoo! Answers (in other words, provide ratings or 
“thumbs up” or vote), they are exposed to the content 
of the questions and answers, and therefore they might 
be drawn into the informational exchange as well. 
 
The positive correlation between the group’s 
evaluation of the quality of the answers and the asker’s 
evaluation might have two explanations: (1) since the 
group members and the asker are equally interested in 
the same issues, they might subscribe to similar 
opinions and, hence, think alike from the outset; (2) a 
second explanation might be related to the 
synchronicity of the inputs. Since the user chooses a 
“Best Answer” only after the group has judged the 
answers, the group’s input might influence the asker’s 
evaluation. 
 
The results also provide an indication that social 
capital plays a role underlying knowledge contribution. 
Consistent with previous work [29, 32, 45], the present 
study leads to the conclusion that once the individual is 
given a chance to share knowledge and the experience 
of sharing is positive, knowledge contribution will 
occur. The positive social atmosphere created by the 
“Thumbs up” and the “question stars” is correlated 
with the quality of the answers as seen by the asker. 
This is not a trivial finding. It points to a significant 
impact of the social sphere on the informational sphere. 
  
The strong positive correlation between the size of the 
group (number of participants in the social network 
who starred questions and evaluated answers) and the 
correlation between group evaluations and asker 
satisfaction supports the “Wisdom of Crowds” 
expectation, since increased numbers of people 
participating in the evaluation leads to a better ability 
to predict asker satisfaction. 
 
The weak negative correlation between the share of 
those who stick to social activity alone and the size of 
the knowledge-seeking activity (numbers of questions 
and answers) is explained by the phenomenon of 
people who interact only with social tools. These users 
participate in the social network and do not partake in 
the knowledge-seeking network. Though the 
knowledge-seeking network and the social network are 
positively correlated across categories and grow 
together, the relative part of those who only do social 
activities declines as the knowledge-seeking network 
grows larger.  
 
Because users who participate in the social network do 
not necessarily use the knowledge-seeking network, 
the social activity in some categories is carried out by 
users who participate only in the social activities. As a 
consequence, these categories will have fewer people 
who answer questions and the size of the group that 
answers and the average number of answers per 
question will be relatively small. In these categories the 
rate of asker satisfaction with the Best Answers will be 
low, as we found in [34], compared to that in 
categories in which the knowledge-seeking activity and 
the amount of answers is average or above.  
 
7. Conclusions and Future Work  
 
The aim of this study was to investigate relationships 
between the two types of networks that compose Q&A 
sites in general and Yahoo! Answers in particular. We 
are interested in exploring social and informational 
networks and the cross-fertilization of user motivation 
between them. The results provide qualified support 
for most of the hypothesized relationships. They 
indicate that the knowledge network and the social 
network are correlated in size and growth, and also 
uncover some subtle variations in this correlation.     
 
The results provide some evidence that the 
contributions by people who engage in social activities 
to the exclusion of other activities on the system, might 
come at the expense of knowledge-seeking activities. 
In categories in which the social activity had no 
knowledge-seeking attached to it, the overall volume 
of the latter activity and the average number of answers 
per question was smaller than in categories in which 
social activities and knowledge-seeking activities co-
occurred. In addition, the social parameters indicating 
the group’s satisfaction with answers were positively 
correlated with the asker’s satisfaction with the answer, 
meaning that the social network can predict asker’s 
satisfaction.  
 
One potential explanation of this result is the common 
and popular “Wisdom of Crowds” expectation, 
according to which groups can successfully predict 
whether an answer is satisfying or not. A potential 
influence of the group’s evaluation on the asker might 
also explain these results, which would create a 
distinctive and directional link between the social 
network and the knowledge-seeking network. 
Consistent with theories of “Wisdom of Crowds,” the 
larger the group that evaluates answer’s quality, the 
more it is correlated with askers’ evaluation of the 
quality of the “Best Answer.”   
 
The results resonate with previous works [29, 32, 45] 
and provide an indication that social capital plays a 
role underlying knowledge contribution and that 
maintaining a critical mass of active social participants 
is important for the knowledge-seeking network.  
 
Thus, an interesting area of further research would look 
for more ties between the two networks, whether 
resulting from behavioral theories or from the 
mechanism of each platform.  
 
Since user satisfaction was found to be a good 
predictor of user’s intention to participate in the future 
[25] an interesting further research would be to define 
and capture the satisfaction parameters of the social 
network’s users. Comparing them to the well-known 
satisfaction’s features, textual and non-textual [5, 19] 
of the information seeking network’s users will be the 
next research issue. 
 
8. References  
 
[1] L. A. Adamic, J. Zhang, E. Bakshy and M. S. Ackerman, 
"Knowledge sharing and yahoo answers: Everyone knows 
something", in Proceeding of the 17th International 
Conference on World Wide Web, 2008, pp. 665-674.  
 
[2] E. Agichtein, C. Castillo, D. Donato, A. Gionis and G. 
Mishne, "Finding high-quality content in social media", in 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Web Search 
and Web Data Mining, 2008, pp. 183-194.  
 
[3] E. Agichtein, C. Castillo, D. Donato, A. Gionis and G. 
Mishne, "TECHNICAL REPORT YR-2007-005”, 2007.  
 
[4] J. Bian, Y. Liu, E. Agichtein and H. Zha, "Finding the 
right facts in the crowd: Factoid question answering over 
social media", in Proceeding of the 17th International 
Conference on World Wide Web, 2008, pp. 467-476.  
 
[5] M. J. Blooma, A. Y. K. Chua and D. H. L. Goh, ”A 
predictive framework for retrieving the best answer“, in 
Proceedings of the 2008 ACM Symposium on Applied 
Computing, 2008, pp. 1107-1111.  
 
[6] M. Bouguessa, B. Dumoulin and S. Wang, "Identifying 
authoritative actors in question-answering forums: The case 
of Yahoo! Answers", in Proceeding of the 14th ACM 
SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery 
and Data Mining, 2008, pp. 866-874.  
 
[7] D. M. Boyd and N. B. Ellison, "Social network sites: 
Definition, history, and scholarship", Journal of Computer 
Mediated Communication Electronic Edition, 2007, vol. 13, 
pp. 210. 
 
[8] P. B. Brandtzæg and J. Heim, "User loyalty and online 
communities: Why members of online communities are not 
faithful", in Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference 
on INtelligent TEchnologies for Interactive enterTAINment, 
2008, pp. 1-10.  
 
[9] B. S. Butler, "Membership size, communication activity, 
and sustainability: A resource-based model of online social 
structures",  Information Systems Research, vol. 12, 2001, 
pp. 346-362.  
 
[10] L. Chen and R. Nayak, ”Expertise analysis in a question 
answer portal for author ranking“, in IEEE/WIC/ACM 
International Conference on Web Intelligence and Intelligent 
Agent Technology, 2008. WI-IAT'08.  
 
[11] J. Golbeck, "The dynamics of web-based social 
networks: Membership, relationships, and change," First 
Monday, vol. 12, 2007. 
 
[12] J. Guo, S. Xu, S. Bao and Y. Yu, "Tapping on the 
potential of q&a community by recommending answer 
providers", in Proceeding of the 17th ACM Conference on 
Information and Knowledge Management, 2008, pp. 921-
930.  
[13] F. M. Harper, D. Moy and J. A. Konstan, "Facts or 
friends?: Distinguishing informational and conversational 
questions in social Q&A sites", in Proceedings of the 27th 
International Conference on Human Factors in Computing 
Systems, 2009, pp. 759-768.  
 
[14] F. M. Harper, D. Raban, S. Rafaeli and J. A. Konstan, 
"Predictors of answer quality in online Q&A sites", in 
Proceeding of the Twenty-Sixth Annual SIGCHI Conference 
on Human Factors in Computing Systems, 2008, pp. 865-
874.  
 
[15] S. R. Hiltz and M. Turoff, "Structuring computer-
mediated communication systems to avoid information 
overload", Communication of the ACM, vol. 28, 1985, pp. 
680-689. 
 
[16] H. Hu and X. Wang, "Evolution of a large online social 
network", Physics Letters A, vol. 373, 2009, pp. 1105-1110. 
 
[17] M. Huysman and V. Wulf, ”The role of information 
technology in building and sustaining the relational base of 
communities“, The Information Society (TIS), vol. 21, 2005, 
pp. 81-89.  
 
[18] A. Iriberri and G. Leroy, ”A life-cycle perspective on 
online community success“, ACM Computing Surveys 
(CSUR), Volume 41 Issue 2, February 2009.  
 
[19] J. Jeon, W. B. Croft, J. H. Lee and S. Park, ”A 
framework to predict the quality of answers with non-textual 
features“, in Proceedings of the 29th Annual International 
ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in 
Information Retrieval, 2006, pp. 235.  
 
[20] Q. Jones, G. Ravid and S. Rafaeli, "Information 
overload and the message dynamics of online interaction 
spaces: A theoretical model and empirical exploration", 
Information Systems Research, vol. 15, 2004, pp. 194-210.  
 
[21] Y. M. Kalman, G. Ravid, D. R. Raban and S. Rafaeli, 
"Pauses and response latencies: A chronemic analysis of 
asynchronous CMC", Journal of Computer‐Mediated 
Communication, vol. 12, 2006, pp. 1-23. 
 
[22] S. Kim, J. S. Oh and S. Oh, "Best-answer selection 
criteria in a social Q&A site from the user-oriented relevance 
perspective", Proceedings of the American Society for 
Information Science and Technology, vol. 44, 2008, pp. 1-15, 
 
[23] G. Kossinets and D. J. Watts, "Origins of Homophily in 
an Evolving Social Network," Am. J. Social., vol. 115, 2009, 
pp. 405-450. 
 
[24] K. R. Lakhani and E. Von Hippel, "How open source 
software works", Research Policy, vol. 32, 2003, pp. 923-
943. 
 
[25] C. Lampe, R. Wash, A. Velasquez and E. Ozkaya, 
"Motivations to participate in online communities," in 
Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Human 
Factors in Computing Systems, 2010, pp. 1927-1936. 
 
[26] B. Li, Y. Liu and E. Agichtein, "CoCQA: Co-training 
over questions and answers with an application to predicting 
question subjectivity orientation", in Proceedings of the 
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language 
Processing, 2008, pp. 937-946.  
 
[27] B. S. C. Liu, R. Madhavan and D. Sudharshan, 
"DiffuNET: The impact of network structure on diffusion of 
innovation", European Journal of Innovation Management, 
vol. 8, 2005, pp. 240-262. 
 
[28] Y. Liu and E. Agichtein, "You've got answers: Towards 
personalized models for predicting success in community 
question answering", in Proceedings of the 46th Annual 
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics on 
Human Language Technologies: Short Papers, 2008, pp. 97-
100.  
 
[29] M. R. Morris, J. Teevan and K. Panovich, "What do 
people ask their social networks, and why?: A survey study 
of status message q&a behavior", in Proceedings of the 28th 
International Conference on Human Factors in Computing 
Systems, 2010, pp. 1739-1748.  
 
[30] T. Murata and S. Moriyasu, "Link prediction of social 
networks based on weighted proximity measures", in 
Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International 
Conference on Web Intelligence, 2007, pp. 85-88.  
 
[31] K. K. Nam, M. S. Ackerman and L. A. Adamic, 
"Questions in, knowledge in?: A study of naver's question 
answering community", in Proceedings of the 27th 
International Conference on Human Factors in Computing 
Systems, 2009, pp. 779-788.  
 
[32] D. Raban and F. Harper, "Motivations for answering 
questions online", New Media and Innovative Technologies, 
2008.  
 
[33] S. Rafaeli and R. J. LaRose, ”Electronic bulletin boards 
and public goods explanations of collaborative mass media“, 
Communication Research, vol. 20, 1993, pp. 277. 
 
[34] A. Rechavi and S. Rafaeli, “Not all is Gold that Glitters: 
Response time & satisfaction rates in Yahoo! Answers”, to be 
presented at The Third IEEE International Conference on 
Social Computing, 2011. 
 
[35] E. M. Rodrigues, and N. Milic-Frayling,”Socializing or 
knowledge sharing? Characterizing social intent in 
community question answering,” 2009, pp. 1127-1136, 
ACM.  
 
[36] P. Shachaf, "The paradox of expertise: is the Wikipedia 
Reference Desk as good as your library?", Journal of 
Documentation, vol. 65, 2009, pp. 977-996. 
 
[37] C. Shah, J. S. Oh and S. Oh, "Exploring characteristics 
and effects of user participation in online social Q&A sites", 
First Monday, vol. 13, 2008.  
 
[38] C. Shah, S. Oh and J. S. Oh, "Research agenda for social 
Q&A," Library & Information Science Research, vol. 31, 
2009, pp. 205-209.  
 
[39] J. Shim, "Social Networking Sites: A Brief Comparison 
of Usage in the US and Korea", Decision Line, vol. 39, 2008, 
pp. 16-18. 
 
[40] V. Soroka and S. Rafaeli, "Invisible participants: How 
cultural capital relates to lurking behavior", in Proceedings of 
the 15th International Conference on World Wide Web, 
2006, pp. 172.  
 
[41] M. Surdeanu, M. Ciaramita and H. Zaragoza, "Learning 
to rank answers on large online QA collections", in 
Proceedings of the 46th Annual Meeting for the Association 
for Computational Linguistics: Human Language 
Technologies (ACL-08: HLT), 2008, pp. 719–727.  
 
[42] J. Tang, S. Scellato, M. Musolesi, C. Mascolo and V. 
Latora, "Small-world behavior in time-varying graphs", 
Physical Review E, vol. 81, Issue 5, 2010, 55101. 
 
[43] T. C. Turner, M. A. Smith, D. Fisher and H. T. Welser, 
"Picturing Usenet: Mapping computer-mediated collective 
action," Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, vol. 
10, pp. 7, 2005.  
 
[44] B. Viswanath, A. Mislove, M. Cha and K. P. Gummadi, 
”On the evolution of user interaction in Facebook“, in 
Proceedings of the 2nd ACM Workshop on Online Social 
Networks, 2009, pp. 37-42.  
 
[45] M. M. L. Wasko and S. Faraj, ”Why should I share? 
Examining social capital and knowledge contribution in 
electronic networks of practice“, Mis Quarterly, vol. 29, pp. 
35-57, 2005.  
 
[46] B. Wellman, "Computer networks as social networks," 
Science, vol. 293, pp. 2031, 2001.  
 
[47] H. T. Welser, E. Gleave, D. Fisher and M. Smith, 
“Visualizing the signatures of social roles in online 
discussion groups", Journal of Social Structure, vol. 8, 2007.  
 
[48] Yang, J., Wei, X., Ackerman, M. S., Adamic, L. A., 
"Activity lifespan: An analysis of user survival patterns in 
online knowledge sharing communities", Proceeding of 
ICWSM, 2010. 
